THE COMPLETE LORE OF SLEEP TOKEN
Author: holy_vermin95 (3y ago)

The complete lore of Sleep Token (as I see it). Bear in mind this is after a sudden urge to understand the lore and create a timeline of events. I know many of y'all have been doing this longer, this is just my interpretation of the timeline assuming every song is in sequence.

As I've said before in another post, I see the story of Sleep Token as the redemption story of Vessel (the character) who is being punished by some unknown force through a deity named Sleep. Sleep is unaware of this and just sees Vessel as "another vessel" to feast on and ruin, but because Vessel is stronger and wants to improve he breaks free by the end of TMBTE with a new outlook on life. So I'll be interpreting the story with that in mind. Here's the story:

I. ONE
- "Thread the Needle" - (Sleep -> Vessel) Sleep seduces Vessel for the first time, and already starts to take control of Vessel's mind by making time dilate. They offer Vessel someone to confide in, and to erase his past mistakes with. "Bury me inside this labyrinth bed" just signifies Vessel going to sleep.
- "Fields of Elation" - (Vessel) Vessel's perspective as he succumbs to Sleep for the first time. He's "losing faith in their time apart" and thinks "nobody else can pull him out" of his past mistakes. This in my opinion makes Vessel much more complex than I imagined. Yes, Sleep is a malicious force that devours souls and feasts on vulnerable people by manipulating them, but Vessel also only values Sleep because they make him feel better about his past. They both do not value one another and are only with each other to serve themselves. The foundation of a toxic relationship.
- "When the Bough Breaks" - (Sleep -> Vessel) Sleep begins to gaslight Vessel. They tell him he's powerless without them and makes him feel bad about himself saying he "doesn't love, just hates to be alone" so he'll be scared and never leave. Sleep also does not believe Vessel is devoted to them and repeats the line "don't lie to me" probably in response to what Vessel says in "Fields of Elation" about Sleep being the only one to pull him out and how devoted he is to them. They also expand on how great they would be together.

II. TWO
- "Calcutta" - (Vessel -> Sleep) This EP came a year after the last one so this song just serves as an update to everyone getting everyone up to speed on Vessel and Sleep's relationship without adding any new significant events. Vessel just gushes over Sleep and tells them how they make him feel whole.
- "Nazareth" - Probably the darkest song in their entire catalog. As Sleep was skeptical of Vessel's devotion to them before, Vessel aims to prove his devotion by torturing and inflicting pain to his past lover (whom he probably already treated wrong considering his "past mistakes" that he seeks to overcome the guilt of with Sleep, this is a huge leap but let's call her Eden). The constant use of "load the gun", "I'll show you what you look like from the inside", and "See if she can guess what a hollow point does to a naked body" show that Vessel intends to shoot her, and I believe he does. Sleep now believes Vessel.
- "Jericho" - (Sleep) This song is basically Sleep just boasting after finally acquiring Vessel as a... well, vessel. They talk about how they "dine on old encounters" before telling Vessel he is completely under their thumb and tells him to "say their name again". This song also seems to be frantically skipping between Vessel and Sleep. "My hands are not worthy" is Vessel reflecting what he's done while Sleep boasts about their victory and control over Vessel.

III. JAWS - (Vessel -> Sleep) Now that Vessel and Sleep are entangled, Vessel asks Sleep to show him love by eating him. Now it is unclear whether this is what Vessel truly likes or if Sleep makes him believe that, but either way this is what Sleep wanted so they're okay with it. There's many more times Vessel asks Sleep to "take a bite" of him and many more references to vorarephilia (even a song called "Vore") so maybe Vessel just wants that.

IV. "The Way that You Were" - (Vessel -> Eden) This songs seems to be about Vessel reminiscing about Eden perhaps talking to her in a dream (considering they're probably not on speaking terms after he literally shot her). Eden is a very troubled soul, with repeated patterns of self harm, and Vessel has an imaginary conversation with her talking about it. Vessel shows no remorse for how he treated her and does not comfort her in any way, showing he has a long way to go for his redemption (in "Are You Really Okay?"). He just says all these things in a very stoic fashion.

V. SUNDOWNING
- "The Night Does Not Belong To God" - (Vessel) Again like "Calcutta" this song serves as a way to get us up to speed on Vessel and Sleep's relationship. Sleep comes to Vessel when he um, falls asleep and talks to him then. Vessel sees this as pure bliss as he repeats "the night comes down like heaven". Vessel also knows Sleep "will not be his" which acts as foreshadowing for the rest of the album as he slowly realises Sleep does not care about his well being and is with him only for their own selfish interest.
- "The Offering" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel offers himself up to Sleep and is fully devoted to them. More references to vorarephilia with "take a bite."
- "Levitate" - (Vessel -> Sleep) As Vessel thinks about why Sleep is so distant with him he tries to empathise with Sleep and considers that maybe Sleep themselves are hurt, but of course they aren't. Vessel offers Sleep comfort and reassurance that he can "lift them up" but secretly knows they will "levitate where he can't reach them". He knows Sleep is unattainable and only comes to him when they want something from him.
- "Dark Signs" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel reflect on his childhood briefly before admitting that he saw red flags when he and Sleep met. He "misses the man he was" and "hates who he's become" under the influence of Sleep. He does so "every time he wakes up" further suggesting this. Even though he wasn't a great man before he met Sleep, he is noticeably worse now.
- "Higher" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel realises his relationship with Sleep is worse for him in the end. They are "killing him slow", and he is "granting them more than the debt that he owes" meaning he is giving Sleep much more than he owes them, but he is still committed and believes every battle they have will take them "higher".
- "Take Aim" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel realises Sleep does not have his best interests in mind and "led him on when the moment was perfect", but he's not ready to give up on the relationship, he's still bargaining.
- "Give" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel implores Sleep to be open with him and tell him they comfort him and he wants to do the same.
- "Gods" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel is driven to the brink and in a fit of rage reflects on what he is and what (perhaps) Sleep has made him. He questions Sleep and asks if they like the way their relationship feels.
- "Sugar" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Despite all the doubts he had, Vessel relapses hard into his infatuation with Sleep. He knows Sleep is toxic but romanticizes his situation, and he sees himself putting his feelings away and clinging onto the relationship as "not giving up".
- "Say That You Will" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel desperately tries to have a conversation with Sleep and says he knows they're "planning to leave in the end" but wants them to tell him pretty lies and is willing to compromise even at the expense of his own well being.
- "Drag Me Under" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel falls deeper into the toxic relationship believing they are meant to be, and implores Sleep to drag him further into the relationship.
- "Blood Sport" - (Vessel) This song summarises the revelations Vessel has had throughout the course of the album. He wants Sleep to open up to him, he knows his love is unrequited, but he's willing to stay at his own expense. This is also the first time the relationship between Sleep and Vessel is given a chemical connotation, suggesting that it's a much deeper connection. Vessel breaks down crying at the end of the song, feeling helpless.

VI. THIS PLACE WILL BECOME YOUR TOMB
- "Atlantic" - (Vessel) Vessel wakes up in a hospital after a failed suicide attempt, perhaps to sever his connection with Sleep, and is talked through the damage. He begs to not be woken up and slowly falls back into Sleep's grasp throughout the course of this album.
- "Hypnosis" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel implores Sleep to once again lift him out, and offers himself to them despite knowing how much it affected him. "The Offering" was the same but he did not know, this song is sadder because he is helpless even after knowing and offers himself up to Sleep the exact same way.
- "Mine" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel believes the relationship is destined to be and that no matter how much he tries to distance himself with Sleep, they'll surely cross paths again. He lies to himself more to make himself feel okay instead of facing the truth.
- "Like That" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel is once again reminded of how toxic the relationship is and asks how Sleep is okay with doing this to him asking if they "like that". He knows he is one of many previous victims. He is aware of his inability to let go no matter you how badly Sleep treats him.
- "The Love You Want" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel tries to have a conversation with Sleep, believing they saw something in him the time they met, and tells them he's still the same person but he knows he'll never be who they want.
- "Fall For Me" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Continuing from the previous song, Vessel desperately implores Sleep to "fall for him" again, because that's what he has convinced himself to believe that was.
- "Alkaline" - (Vessel) Vessel is infatuated again and can't explain it, even though he knows Sleep is changing him. He refuses to do anything about it, because he enjoys the ride. More chemical references.
- "Distraction" - (Vessel) Vessel realises he's past the point of no return and it's "too late for him" he's fallen in too deep into him relationship with Sleep.
- "Descending" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel is actually very stern with Sleep and says things for what they are for the the first time.
- "Telomeres" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel seemed really convinced on the previous track but now he's back to romanticizing his relationship and acknowledges that Sleep provided him comfort. This part of the album is very confusing as Vessel changes his mind about the relationship with every song. The way I see it is him trying to make sense of the relationship. He feels conflicted.
- "High Water" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel chooses to ignore his own doubts about the relationship again, even though he knows it's not the best for him.
- "Missing Limbs" - (Vessel -> Eden) Vessel has another imaginary conversation, probably a dream talking to Eden saying he still loves her and his relationship with Sleep is losing its allure.

VII. TAKE ME BACK TO EDEN
- "Chokehold" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Again, this serves as an update for us setting the scene, Vessel is still firmly in Sleep's grasp.
- "The Summoning" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel talks about how his relationship with Sleep is and he presents it in a very romantic way like they were destined to be together. Even though throughout the course of the album he finds the strength to move on from Sleep.
- "Granite" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel says things for what they are again and seems very empowered. Like he's finally seeing the relationship from the perspective of an outsider and for what it is.
- "Aqua Regia" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel talks more about his relationship with Sleep but wants to move on ("and I am done dancing to alarming bells").
- "Vore" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel feels his vorarephilic urges again and wishes to be "swallowed whole" by Sleep, but he acknowledges that he is suffering and asks Sleep if they are "in pain like he is".
- "Ascensionism" - (Vessel -> Sleep) Much like "Granite", Vessel is very empowered here. He no longer feels helpless and asks Sleep to "watch him ascend". He fully acknowledges that Sleep "makes him wish he could disappear". It's taken him so long to fully admit that.
- "Are You Really Okay?" (Vessel -> Eden) Vessel fully confronts Eden about her self harm and begs her to not hurt herself again. He feels empathy for others and slowly transforms into a better person.
- "The Apparition" (Vessel -> Sleep) Vessel asks Sleep why they are never real and why they leave every time he awakes, but he also wants to nihilistically "make trouble in the dream world" because "this could be the last time" suggesting that he wants to move on.
- "DYWTYLM" (Vessel -> himself) Throughout his life and throughout the course of his relationship with Sleep, Vessel has dealt with an immense amount of self hatred and can't even smile at himself in the mirror. This song is really sad but it also shows Vessel's willingness to heal from his trauma and become a better person and learn to love himself instead of just escaping and running away from his problems like he used to.
- "Rain" (Vessel) Vessel acknowledges how much he has changed, perhaps with Sleep or just from the time he was born when he was a good person and he asks an unknown force to cleanse him of his sins. This force isn't Sleep at this point because Vessel is pretty clear about moving on.
- "Take Me Back to Eden" (Vessel -> Sleep) This is the final time Vessel addresses Sleep and it's a huge tribute to Sleep, without whom he would not have improved, but he also acknowledges the toxicity of the relationship but in a mature way. He looks back at the journey he has had and has a mature outlook on it, he was treated badly by Sleep, but he was also bad, and he's ready to move on.
- "Euclid" (Vessel) In the aftermath of it all, Vessel is ready to shed his former self and become someone new. He calls back to "The Night Does Not Belong To God" just as a tribute to acknowledge how far he has come and what a journey it has been.

If you've read this far, thank you so much haha! This is my interpretation of just the lyrics of the songs and the story that they tell. I understand that there's much more lore to be found in Sleep Token. I'd love to hear your thoughts. Worship.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMENTS SECTION

PopUnlikely (3y ago):
I really like this interpretation! Nazareth always have me bad feelings and made me realize Vessel wasn't so innocent. I do think the songs tell a bigger story out of order I just haven't figured out what that order might be lol
With your theory what if Sleep is treating Vessel the way he was treating "Eden"? Potentially a very self driven toxic person when it comes to relationships so his punishment was to relive that relationship but on the receiving end.

rtv- (3y ago):
After a quick read I'm not sure I'm with you on all points yet, I believe the songs aren't in chronological order. There may be a "master order" for the 3 main albums released to make a more cohesive narrative. Time dilates after all.
One thing I totally agree on is that the songs are not all from Vessel's perspective. There are definitely songs, or even parts of songs that are from Sleep to Vessel, or even the wider world in general. This is a big part of how I understand it.
I also believe that while Sleep is a malicious character I see Vessel as a very nuanced character too. Definitely not an innocent victim. There is depth to both sides and nothing is ever black and white. . .
One theory I have been toying with is that through the songs, Sleep is telling Vessel how they were corrupted and damaged (possibly by an even higher power. . . Next chapter anyone?) and ultimately became trapped as the deity. This would make Vessel's just that, a vessel for Sleeps story. He is retelling the tragic story of a mortal who became deity and can't ever be free and can only feel something by tormenting humans.
Bit of a stretch but it adds a new slant on a lot of the songs. . .

holy_vermin95 (3y ago):
True! It was a huge assumption on my part taking the songs in order, but it's a fun thought experiment regardless and it adds a story to follow along to when listening to the entire discography in order if you ever wanna do that haha.

rtv- (3y ago):
For sure. I certainly didn't mean to belittle your comments. I firmly believe art is subjective and deeply personal. You've clearly spent time and effort as well as much thought on your interpretation and its totally valid. If we find meaning in art it has achieved its purpose, regardless of others or even the original artists interpretation! That's why art is beautiful.
My work is a time for me to listen to lots of music and going from start to finish on the discography is a pleasure and I take new meanings/connections each time.

wndrlustqueen (3y ago):
I love this! This is what I've been thinking, Sleep got trapped inside Vessel and is telling their story. Cool that someone else had the same notion...

Boring-Assistant-228 (3y ago):
I like this breakdown
But i do think that the vorarephilia is a double meaning of both literal and metaphorical
There won’t be anything left of him at that rate if it isn’t a metaphor for an emotional consumption and the desire for closeness
The want to be needed on a level comparable to food in the sense he wants to be a necessity to sleep
I imagine an omniscient being doesn’t actually require physical sustenance as much as an offering of sustenance
All gods are a thought form that require a spot in our minds to live and feed off of our prayers

xAkMoRRoWiNdx (3y ago):
Reading how Sleep is abusive, controlling, and causes Vessel to do bad things, makes me think it's a metaphor for drug abuse (substance abuse if you please). Trying to quit can be the hardest thing in your life. For me, it's Anxiety.
Given my current life status, you could replace "Sleep" with "anxiety" and this post would fit my life surprisingly well. Battling your demons of various forms, and not being able to tell up from down, going back and forth, and everything is tormenting. Just my two cents

[deleted] (3y ago):
Comment removed by moderator

xAkMoRRoWiNdx (3y ago):
Right

toorandomguy (3y ago):
I want to add to this by theorizing that every cover Sleep Token has done really fits into this concept.
Let me make that clearer by referencing Key lines in the Songs they are Covering:
1.) Outkast - Hey Ya! - "Because she loves me so and this I know for sure // But does she really wanna and can't stand to see me walk out the door?"
This could reference the theme of not loving each other, but not being able to live alone. Chronologically, this is between "One" and "Two" so Vessel questions for the first time if Sleep will really ever love him (not yet thinking about if he really loves Sleep).
2.) Billie Eilish - When the Party's Over - "I could lie, say I like it like that"
This is a heavily recurring line in the original Song and I view it as Vessel's confession to himself that, should he keep on holding the Relationship to Sleep up, he will lie to himself and retrospectively also lie to "Eden" because he knows this wasn't right to come about.
3.) Whitney Houston - I wanna Dance with Somebody - "I wanna Dance with Somebody // With somebody who loves me"
The sheer Desperation that can (imo) be heard in Vessels Voice singing this shows that after the Events of Sundowning, Vessel is just, again, massively desperate to have someone in his life that loves him. He is at fault for the loss of Eden, be it a romantic or actual loss, and Sleep does not love him. He has a very clear Moment here. This desperation might also have led to the alleged Suicide Attempt in between Sundowning and TPWBYT, specifically Atlantic.
Just some ramble on this, I might miss crucial Details Here so feel free to enlighten me with your thoughts!

Gullible_Slip_7522 (3y ago):
They've also teased Evanescence's Bring Me To Life on tour a few times, mostly just the opening notes of the song but.

toorandomguy (3y ago):
Yeah I think that was kinda humourous by Vessel, don't think that has that kind of special Place the released Covers have. Same goes for Hallelujah by Leonard Cohen, as mentioned before.

Intergatedhardware (3y ago):
I am literally speechless .beautifully done

AffectionateTax6896 (3y ago):
Agree, wholeheartedly

Nepenthia (3y ago):
This is brilliant. It honestly gave me a new perspective on the whole thing, since my English seems to not be enough to grasp everything.
Thank you for the post!

neightpthree (3y ago):
Ok I got a a question, for anyone really…and I’m not trying to spark a conversation about Vessel’s identity. I think many of us have come to firm conclusions on that question, but that not what I’m getting at here. What I’m wondering is…should we believe that the earthly events in the lore narrative actually happened to the person we know as Vessel??? For example, if we’re saying that Atlantic is Vessel recalling when he woke up in a hospital after a suicide attempt, does that mean we think the suicide attempt was a real-world event that actually occurred in this man’s life? Or is that part of the lore but fictitious historically? And if we think it really happened, when would you suppose it happened in our chronology? Like did it actually happen between the release of Sundowning and the release of TPWBYT? Or what other ideas do you all have?

Kyruss_88 (3y ago):
I believe it is describing drug addiction (Sleep) and the journey to sobriety (Eden) and the suicide attempt was actually an overdose. Now whether it happened to the person we know as Vessel I can not say, but imo I would have to say yes, it's just too deep.

Naughtynurse1976 (3y ago):
I think you are on to something. I believe sleep is a woman. I feel like a damn good write uses their life experiences for songs. It may be embellished, but it’s real. This imh is the reason we all feel it the way we do. We relate, we connect on a spiritual level.

LusikkaFeed (3y ago):
I just think they are songs about failed relationships and losing yourself.

rtv- (3y ago):
I agree with you. I am firmly in the camp of Sleep and the lore simlply being a framing device for expressing feelings about difficult relationships through music.
I do belive that in a similar way to an author creating a fictional universe ( Tolkien, Frank Herbert etc.) That there are clear long running themes and connections between the body of work as a whole. There is much merit fir fans in finding and deciphering them, some will have been fully intentional, some a happy accident by the creator. It adds depth and intrigue to any art form.

ToddlerInTheWild (3y ago):
This is how I feel as well. I see Sleep as a metaphor for all the feelings a failed relationship brings while you lay awake at night, battling insomnia. Vessel chose to weaponize/dwell on the anger and heartache from a toxic relationship to fuel his music rather than letting go of the feelings in a healthier way… and this is how Sleep promises to lead Vessel to glory. Considering the wild success of ST now, I’d say Sleep held up their end of the bargain!
Euclid is the ode to the forgiveness and acceptance Vessel needed to finally move on from his past relationship. (I wonder if the relationship is reference to a previous musical collaborator, who Vessel is now ready to make new music with!)

ThriceWeSay (3y ago):
It's funny I see a lot of parallels between the Sleep Token and Silent Hill fans. People digging ever deeper to access the "Deep Lore". How deep does it go?! The reality is it was just some songs about love and loss.
It's fun though. People love the feeling of discovery and being a part of this big grand story. That they know the true story of what the creator was trying to tell.
Maybe in 20 years we'll have Vessel on twitter fighting off rabid fans telling him that he doesn't know true lore. Like how Masahiro Ito does on twitter.

stray_canary (3y ago):
Funny that silent hill fans are creeping into this lore, in saying that some of the artwork for tmbte look like those evil fuckers off silent hill

sidthafish (3y ago):
Agree. At the end of the day, most of these songs are 'love songs'. I don't understand the fanfic people come up with based on limited information regarding lore.

Kenny__Loggins (3y ago):
They are both.  I don't know why this fanbase has such a hard time understand that concept albums usually have themes and subtext outside the explicit story.

AikkoVsTheWorld (3y ago):
They are, but new fans downvote you for that.

Highdrophiliac (3y ago):
Basically. Idk why people use just one line of a song and try to connect it all somehow lol

Xullstudio (3y ago):
Thanks dude! I have been getting into this band a lot lately and my god is it overwhelming trying to piece all this together 😅😂

Lynchy28 (3y ago):
Ditto.

[deleted] (3y ago):
Only thing that I would change, is that some songs where it seems he’s romanticizing someone, and in particular a woman, like “Alkaline,” I would say that he’s not singing for Sleep, but actually Eden

eltiburonmormon (3y ago):
This was very interesting to read and I really like your interpretation of the lore! Thank you for sharing!

simply-newtron (3y ago):
Every bit of this. 🛐

MilkMundane177 (3y ago):
Thank you very much for this. I spent some time listening to all songs alongside your interpretation and it was biblical (with a bit of cosmic horror). Again, thank you very much for this.

Kyruss_88 (3y ago):
After reading this it sounds like Sleep is a metaphor for drug addiction and everything between is the journey back to sobriety - Eden

[deleted] (3y ago):
This is my canon

Pitiful-Preference54 (3y ago):
Even if this is made up I just love this stories line. I would have never even thought how the songs all correlated with each other but then some times not because of the conflicting emotions. Also Vessel is a savage! Im so glad he is seeing and being his full potential!

Funny_Artichoke2561 (3y ago):
Vessel also constantly mentions car crashes I wonder how that fits into the story

Julien7778 (3y ago):
This was a very good way to explain it, I would change some things in my interpretation, but this is very similar to how I see it. Great story!

No-Try6358 (3y ago):
Lovely interpretation. However I view Rain as more of a “reminiscing on the good times” type track. Just my opinion tho

NFfan21 (3y ago):
This is Awesome

stray_canary (3y ago):
Thankyou for your interpretation of the lore of these amazing artist !!! I’m only just half way through their discography but love that I’m learning and finding so much more about this mysterious band 💚🤙

Intergatedhardware (3y ago):
Beautifully stated 👏

AffectionateTax6896 (3y ago):
It resonates as Sleep=heroin... his relationship with a heroin addiction. Chilling. Great insight

montanacameltoe (3y ago):
I don’t think this is accurate

[deleted] (3y ago):
Made myself late for work reading this 😃 awesome read thank though thank you. Ugh..Sleep really just seduces Vessel and then fucks off 🥺

I_am_Rale (3y ago):
How about this: Vessel is a drug addict. He knows how bad it is for him, but he cant stop. His inner battle with the moralty of drug abuse and anxiety caused by it makes him have a nightmares at night, or even sleep paralysis. In those "dreams" he personifies the dreams, or the sleep paralysis demon with Sleep.
Previous bad experiences made him try drugs as a means to escape, which entangled him in all this. First he liked it, as it gave him a rush and made him forget about "Eden" as you called her. But later he found that it was destructive to himself and tried to escape it, only to relapse again and again. Everytime he relapsed, he tried to convince himself, that it's better this way. The pain without the drugs is worse then when he is using. He even goes as for to let himself be completely consumed by it, metaphorically offering himself to Sleep (drugs) only to be as numb as possible.
In moments of clarity, he can see himself becoming a wreck disgusted with himself, which even caused him to be suicidal. He tries to free himself from Sleep to better himself, and even tries to show us, the audience, that this stuff is bad.
Im not going to go all to deep into the explanation for it in every song, but this is just my 2 cents.
I mean this is a Huuuuuge stretch, but i tried to rationalize this as much as i could to eliminate the supernatural elements. In the end, it's up to the listener to take it away, the he understands it.

vanillagorrilla23 (3y ago):
Loved the lore breakdown. I've been listening to everything and trying to understand. Would hear bits and pieces of the lore from sources online but never really understood it. My first interpretation was sleep stole him from eden and as a way to prove imhis devotion made him hurt her causing her to hurt herself. And when he starts to wake up h and realizes he's alone and eden was the one who was actually there for him, sleep was just using him it all seems so personal it makes me think it's based on real events. Thanks for the post

[deleted] (3y ago):
Comment deleted by user

stereolights (3y ago):
Sleep likes top 20 music, it's just an offering from their favorite human /s

stray_canary (3y ago):
😅🤣 I was pleasantly surprised how hard it splats though

[deleted] (3y ago):
☠️☠️☠️

[deleted] (3y ago):
Comment deleted by user

jumexju (3y ago):
I think maybe they think its vessel --> eden because of the mentions of self harm ( 'you woke me up one night dripping crimson on the carpet' // 'I saw it in your eyes cutting deeper than the scars could run' // 'Please don't hurt yourself again' ), in this interpretation we associate self harm with eden as she's known for it (The Way That You Were).
'And don't you know I was trying to hold back the darkness?', I think this could be a reference to vessel  trying to make his relationship with eden work despite sleep coming into his life and taking over when vessel and eden were still together.
'I want to help you but dont know how' could again be vessel speaking to (eden in a dream ??)
idk im just bored and its 3 am :P

AffectionateTax6896 (3y ago):
OR... maybe Eden is his other self. The simulation of his relationship with himself, and the personification of his other half.