Thread Title: Rob Zombie show
Subreddit: r/StLouis

Initial Post:
Did anybody else notice Rob wasn’t really singing most of the songs? Was he wasted? Did he forget the words? I left after the “incident” because I had had enough of his half yelling/half making the crowd sing. Alice Cooper was good though.

Comments:

WmJayMurderface:
What was "the incident"?

anomynous1:
Somebody collapsed in the pit and they stopped playing for ~10 minutes

[deleted]:
I mean, the average fan is probably 50, pits are probably a bad idea at this stage in life. 🧓🧑‍🦳

BigYonsan:
I'm 38 and I feel personally attacked.🤣 Like, you're not wrong, but damn.

[deleted]:
😂

AlexRam72:
To be fair it was some annoying ass kids that started the pit. I’m cool with pits but they definitely didn’t know the etiquette of if people aren’t actively moshing don’t run into them full steam repeatedly.

BigYonsan:
That's been an issue in St Louis for years. No one knows there's rules to this shit. I see kids throwing elbows and punches, girls scratching at the air above them, people not picking up the ones who fall, it's a shit show.

moorem2014:
It’s an issue everywhere now. I’ve been to shows in NC, DC, CA, SC, VA, IL, and MO the last two years and terrible pit etiquette is everywhere. Terrible concert etiquette too.

aworldwithinitself:
i can accept the thrown elbows but i draw the line at air scratching!

BigYonsan:
I almost lost an eye to some 250lbs 4 foot 8 girl and her long nails, so it stands out to me. Took out my pit glasses, left a cut on my cheek and arm.

Curious_Raise8771:
Now? The folks that actually get in the pit know the rules. It's soccer tackles and shoulder barges. Get out that stress.
Fucking frat boy asshole tourists think it's about hurting each other.
This has been an issue since the wider world learned the word MOSH. AKA 1990.
--Signed an old fart.

BigYonsan:
Sadly, I ain't young anymore either, but I remember pit etiquette at shows as late as 2008 or so.

Curious_Raise8771:
I stopped getting into the pit when i was 20. Last time I recall VOLUNTARILY getting in the pit, and it probably isn't, was at Club 367 for Forbidden.
That was also the one and only time I stage dived.

sallywho_rides:
I remember club 367 , I had a few fun nights in there !

WmJayMurderface:
Thanks. Hope they were ok.

Durmomo:
That was very cool of them to do so the person could get help

Voodoodriver:
I was about 15 feet away. I believe someone hit their head. There was blood. The security and EMS were really slow. They didn’t scoop and run. It was maybe five or six minutes. I thought it was strange that it took that long. Maybe they suspected a head/neck/spinal. They also bounced the guy in the white tux tail coat with a dumb banner. So Security gets a “W” in my book. There was also a snow flake in the second row “saving” a spot for someone with the help of their parents. Not my favorite look in a “Pit”

jimmypop1:
So from what we gathered about 10ft to the left of the dude. Bro was trying to mosh and getting pretty hard on it and moshed a little too hard and busted his face open and not sure if he collapsed into the people behind him or if he fell and they picked him up but he was slinging blood everywhere and Rob saw someone being helped up but he thought it was a girl being held down. 20seconds later he halted the music and called security over and security took a LONG time and Rob was getting pissed. Rob even called out about how no one was clearing room, I did see a guy in white bounced out but dont know much on that. Best friend had meet and great with Rob zombie and Sheri (hes a relative of hers if im not mistaken but when ever they come to town him and his wife get to hang with them before and after the show) apparently Sheri was gonna make an appearance and thank the fans with rob for everyone coming out to the show but because of how long the incident took they didnt. BIG L for riverport.

Codeandcoffee:
The guy is pretty notorious for being terrible live. He seems to get out of breath immediately and be unable to keep up with his own songs

Drum_Eatenton:
He was out of breath singing more human than human on the letterman show in the 90s

Dino_vagina:
Fucking thank you man. People have been trying to gaslight me about that show ( 2014? Maybe) that was the pointerfest combo rob zombie Manson headliners, powerman 3000 went on instead of Jonathan Davis dubstep stuff. Marilyn Manson ( although I'm no longer a fan) could do his set abysmally drunk and still sound pretty good, as he did. His show was fantastic considering his blatant alcoholism back then ( looking at you talking dead appearance). I straight left in the middle of zombies set, he kept bitching about all kinds of stuff like the fire show stuff and it being hot ( ill say it again it was October). Its the only show I've ever left.

Curious_Raise8771:
It was cold. I didn't even wait for him to come on. But I wasn't there to see him or his cousin.

Dino_vagina:
I had decent seats too. I thought I remembered wearing a jacket. It was awful.

Curious_Raise8771:
I remember drinking Hot Chocolate.

AlanMorlock:
Rained a bunch

Orinocobro:
Not a huge fan, but YouTube recommended a video of White Zombie playing live ca. 1999 and I watched a chunk out of high school nostalgia. White Zombie was a great, tight, band. Rob mostly stomped around on stage and said "yeeeahhh."

anomynous1:
I was surprised by how much he actually sang last night because it’s usually way less

mztd:
He does that in almost every live performance. My guess is because he's also dancing around. He doesn't stop moving.

JayHopt:
He did say “Never gonna stop me, never gonna stop!”

Hypocrisydenied:
He runs from one spot to another to another. It's always been strangely choreographed.

HuckDab:
I've been to over a thousand concerts and RZ put on one of the best shows across all genres. I'd be out of breath if I was wild'n out on stage like he does too.

Degofreak:
Aww man, we have to have standards. Watch any video of Mick Jagger. He bounces all over, is already old, and hits his notes.

Curious_Raise8771:
I've been to four Rob Zombie shows. I've lost count of how many different bands across different genres in so many different kinds of venues....
If you think that's the best show you've ever seen, I'm sorry, or we have very different ideas as to what a great show entails.

mztd:
I agree completely. Who cares really about his lyrics when he's putting on a show with so much to look at?

Curious_Raise8771:
Who cares about the music he's playing?
See, you and I, we care about different things at a musical performance. :)

mztd:
You may have misunderstood. I said the lyrics.. not the music. I have seen Zombie countless times since 1995. I go to hear the old shit because hes been my favorite artist since I was a 15 year old little girl and hearing it takes me back. I have grown up watching this man and his amazing performances evolve to what it is now.
His lyrics are all over the place and some of it doesn't make it in his live shows.
I could go on but I've shown too much of my Zombie nerdiness lol

Curious_Raise8771:
Oh, when I hear someone say lyrics, I assume they mean the vocals, which is a part of the music. ;)

HuckDab:
Yea there's just as much theatrics going on as there is musical talent and that's not to say either is lacking. His team's production skills from his hollywood movies carry over to his live performances.

FishfortheElectorate:
Alice Cooper and his band were great.

Maven3679:
I enjoyed the Fuck out of the night, but I was also in shrooms

Chocolatestarfish33 (OP):
Yeah the visual aspect of the show was great. I figured it would be. Cooper and Zombie are both theatrical as f@ck

Salty_Soykaf:
I mean, dude pulling 60 and Alice is 76. They old.

Chocolatestarfish33 (OP):
Also saw Limp Bizkit, Primus and Creed this year and they’re all about as old. Much better shows. Still reeling from how great Creed was.Scott Stapp is clearly sober now lol

moorem2014:
Creed was one of the best shows I have ever been to.

BasicMarzipan5936:
I remember seeing Creed, Fuel, and Finger Eleven during peak Creed and Creed were so weak compared to the other 2 bands. Pretty sure I even bought some new tan boots for the show. Lol. It seemed to work out pretty well for everyone as the other two bands were relatively new and not popular at the time.

Chewbacca419:
Yeah but he was always that bad. I used to see White Zombie shows and was like that too.

TheOrionNebula:
I'm not a fan, but Tom Cruise sprints and jumps off buildings at 62. 60 doesn't qualify for "they old". RZ just doesn't give a shit enough to put in any effort as an entertainer.

Salty_Soykaf:
That's fair, but Tom Cruise clearly lives a different life style.

ECB710:
Lol just because tom cruise runs and jumps off buildings doesn't make 60 not old

[deleted]:
Yeah, did you see RHC? Those guys are 60 and I bet their stamina is higher than a lot of thirty year olds.
Edit: I just saw Sammy, he’s 77! He was more energetic than Third Eye Blind at almost 20 years older than them.

MoeTheGoon:
I saw him back in September of 2006. It was the same. Winded, singing half sentences, generally poor.

Stabstone:
Seemed like the show really dragged-ula….thank you thank you.

Purdy0420:
Bahaha you’re silly

Hypocrisydenied:
His shows are always choreographed and terrible

jstnpotthoff:
I've seen Zombie a couple times. He puts on a good (read: entertaining) show, but every time I leave thinking Man, I would be better doing Rob Zombie karaoke than Rob Zombie singing his own songs.
And I'm not very good.

SnooWords1227:
He’s been a track act for decades.

Degofreak:
I saw him at the Pageant several years ago and he was doing the same thing.

Neat_Fan3280:
The first Rob zombie show I went to the dude did forget the words to his own song. This time was a little better but like you said, he was getting the audience to sing. Alice cooper was great. Rob zombie, meh

StraightCut2085:
Ministry was the highlight of the night. Both Alice and Zombie definitely had cool stage shows.

Any-Initiative910:
This is not new

aviationmaybe:
DUDE he makes the crowd sing everything. He’s been doing that for like 15 years at least.

Illustrious_Low4160:
That's kinda his thing.

LIFAD90:
Maybe I'm easily amused but I thought the show was great. Yeah, zombie stopped singing a few times and got out of breath a bit but It wasn't that big of a deal to me. That woman who was playing lead for AC was awesome, too.

Smoke14fan:
I saw him with Korn a few years ago, he did a similar thing. And even said “I’m so sick of singing this song. I have sung it 35 thousand times and am done. You sing it”

MyDudeSR:
Rob Zombie is one of those artists that I always heard out on really good shows, yet he was terrible when I saw him like 6 or so years ago. He played like 3 songs and spent the rest of his scheduled hour trying to hype the crowd.

Mark_Swan:
I was there and I had the same complaint about Rob Zombie. I have seen him in the past but this just wasn't great. Visually the show was great though.
I really bought the tickets to catch Ministry, but the sound wasn't mixed right and it kinda ruined it for me.
I had never seen Alice Cooper before and wasn't really excited for it. However, it ended up being my favorite part of the show. I truly enjoyed it more than I ever expected to.

AlanMorlock:
Basically how RZ has performed his songs since the mid 2000s.
Long time back he took on a weird habit of singing Suberbeast off beat, especially the last words of phrases. He's really consistent with specifically when he's off beat though so it's clearly deliberate. Just a really weird choice.
Overall I liked his performance Saturday more than when he came through in 2022.

Lower_Assist159:
Was at the show in St.Louis. Rob was acting like a monkey on meth.  And then there was an accident in the pit. Anyone know what happened in the pit?

ButWholeLiquor:
Saw him at Ozzfest (06 maybe?) and he sucked live then, as well... kept complaining about the heat (it's St Louis in August, bro.. maybe don't dress like Undead Macho Man?) He and Manson were the two worst acts that day, just phoning it in the entire time.

Curious_Raise8771:
I didn't give two farts about seeing Rob Zombie for like the fourth time. I did give seventeen farts about hearing Thunderkiss '65.
I wish I had left. The guitar player couldn't play it and Zombie couldn't sing it.
Oh well, I still got the vinyl record that plays it perfect every time.

warnk07:
Yeah, both him and Alice Cooper were not great.

MommyKillz:
Thank-you for saying that. This was my first time seeing any of these bands and I thought something was missing in Zombie's performance.  All of the visuals were also too overwhelming. He didn't even play an hour after us waiting almost that long after Alice Cooper.
Also, the audience was pretty lame. I mean, how can you just sit when these bands are playing?
Ministry was amazing (to me) as was Alice Cooper. Nita Straus is a guitar virtuoso and I was happy to witness it. Filter was ok but really seemed out of place.

SadPhase2589:
I mean, you went and saw a 90’s burnout who had one hit, what where you expecting.

opossomoperson:
One hit? LOL are you serious? Just because the only song you know is Dragula doesn't mean that's his only hit. He has plenty between his solo stuff and White Zombie.

fit_for_the_gallows:
I see you are military.
How is your Godsmack fandom?

SadPhase2589:
I’m more of Foo Fighters kinda guy.

Chocolatestarfish33 (OP):
Which one? I must be older than you because I knew all but 1 of the songs he performed.

AlanMorlock:
He played maybe 2 songs from after Sinister Urge.