FIRST CONCERT - WHAT TO EXPECT?
Author: Spiritual_Hat7507 (1y ago)

Hi all! I've been following Sleep Token for awhile and was finally able to secure tickets for this tour! I wanted to ask all of you: what are the concerts like? How are the crowds? Is there anything I should expect or know beforehand?

I'm also planning on bringing my dad since he's my concert buddy and likes a decent amount of rock/metal music. Do you guys think he'll enjoy the show despite not knowing much of the music or much of what they are like?

Thanks in advance for everyone's input! I really appreciate any and all advice. <3

EDIT: A lot of responses came through so it might take me time to respond - thank you everyone so much! You all are so kind! 💜

----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMENTS SECTION

Tall-Poet (1y ago):
Be prepared to stand in line. No matter how early you think you are, you're not lol. If you want merch, I'd try before the show starts or you risk it being sold out / missing half the show in line.
However, you'll have a great time. There isn't the back and forth with the crowd like most bands have during concerts (No "Hello Detroit!" Or whatever to keep them anonymous) it's just start to finish music (for TMBTE they played recordings of Sleep and Vessel having a conversation at points) but it's unlike any concert I've been too before, the energy is unmatched and we already know they are talented musicians.
Btw I love to see you're taking your dad, my dad was always my concert buddy too.

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Good to know. Thank you so much! Also, reading that last part made me smile. 😊

dusky_thrust (1y ago):
get ready for a badass light show!

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Oh my God, so cool! Can't wait! Awesome picture! 😊

hockeychick44 (1y ago):
One thing I hated at the last concert was people screaming during pauses in the songs. I wish people would not do that 🫠 some of the songs are really heavy emotionally and it seems wrong to be fangirling at those moments.
1. Earplugs. Earplugs. I don't care if your seat is in the nosebleeds or if you're in the pit. Earplugs!
2. It's a bit claustrophobic. Dress like it's gonna be warm in there. It's probably better with the arenas but I was still sweaty even in a medium sized venue.
3. If you want merch be prepared to stand in line for a while.
4. Many fans dress up, pass out trinkets, and more. There's no pressure to do it, but there's also a community that loves it so if that's your thing don't feel bad about expressing yourself.
5. Wear close toed shoes.

Meghar (1y ago):
For the UK arena tour last year, they had trucks outside the venue selling merch the whole day so the lineup wasn't too crazy once you got inside, and for the Toronto shows last year, they let people in early (at ~3pm, i think) to buy merch and then leave to also cut down on the lineup once doors opened. Hopefully the US venues have been briefed so they can do something similar.

Myrrick (1y ago):
Several of the US shows had pop ups the day before, not all but a lot of them. They’ll announce on their social channels.

zamymm (1y ago):
Sorry I just wanted to ask about 4. I wanted to make and exchange friendship bracelets, but I’m also socially anxious lol. Do you just go up to someone and say “do you want one?” Do you ask for one if you see someone with them? How does it work, if you don’t mind sharing? 🙈

hockeychick44 (1y ago):
You got it. When you meet or chat with folks just offer it to them. You'll see folks exchanging them too.

zamymm (1y ago):
Ahh okay!! I will try that. Thanks 😊

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Really appreciate this detailed list - thank you! 💜

TroyE2323 (1y ago):
Serious question, how does the music sound through earplugs?

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
I've used earplugs for 80% of the concerts I went to last year. You can hear the audio fine, but it just seems a little more muted. It could've been the ones I was using - I think someone in this thread mentioned a brand that doesn't dim the acoustics too much. Hope this helps! 😊

TroyE2323 (1y ago):
Thank you🙏

Quirky-Brilliant1743 (1y ago):
I bought "loops" for U2 in Vegas and they were great. I just put them in before the music started and didn't take them out. Much better than shoving paper towel in my ears for Guns and Roses. No ringing after the show. Clearly with the forty bucks given ticket prices these days.

HowdyPowdy (1y ago):
I also have loops and love them. The way I describe them to people is if the concert is at volume 10, putting the earplugs in turn the volume down to 8. Which is much more bearable.

krob58 (1y ago):
Try to get barricade or elevated seats so you don't have to watch the concert through everyone's stupid phones, ST fans all have to record the entire show for some reason. Skip merch or hit it immediately, otherwise you'll spend half the show in line. Bring earplugs, Loop makes some good ones for concerts that will dampen but not deaden. If you're pit and want barricade, line up hours in advance (and then a few more hours before you think you have to line up just for good measure). If you're pit and don't get barricade, do not stand in the middle, if there's going to be a mosh pit, that's where it will be. If a space opens up in the middle, don't pile into it because it is not free real estate, it's the mosh pit. It's a gamble whether or not people will mosh at a ST show (depends on the crowd). Things will be calmer at the edges. Don't lock your knees. Don't fight the crowd when it starts to move, just move with it. Number One Rule of concerts: if someone falls, everyone stops until they get picked back up.
Don't stress about your dad liking them or not, your dad will just be happy to spend time with you participating in something you like.

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
I was only able to snag floor seats... Hopefully, it won't be too much of a problem. A lot of people have been saying to hit the merch early, so I'll be sure to do that! I at least want to try and get a shirt!
That's pretty much what my dad said when I asked for him to go with me - thank you so much for your detailed advice! I appreciate it! 😊

stalecatfood (1y ago):
I’ve seen them at Pomona, and red rocks. The crowds have been a mixed bag every time. Young, old, new fans old fans. Everyone has been friendly. They’re absolutely amazing live and personally i enjoy their live performances better than the albums.
My wife wasn’t a fan before Pomona but she was rocking out and singing along to every song at red rocks. If your pops enjoys talented musicians I’m sure he will have a blast. You could show him any of the live shows from the teeth of god tour so he can get a taste.
https://youtu.be/rHrifFPh7rk?si=Z9bB_KXbtZsPHYVS

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Thank you so much for talking about your experience! I really appreciate the link! I'll be sure to show my dad. 😊

WeAreNotYourK1nd (1y ago):
Even if your dad isn't a fan, i'm sure he will have a great time. I wasn't a fan despite my brother's constant badgering and was driving him to their ritual in Birmingham, UK. Rather than sit outside waiting for them, they got me a last minute ticket from a resale website on the way to the gig. I've worshiped ever since.

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Good to know - thank you so much! 😊

BucketOfGuts (1y ago):
If you're looking for exclusive merch (assuming they will do the coins/specific posters), you gotta get there ungodly early. I was at Radio City last year and my wife and I did touristy stuff all day including Rockefeller Center's roof deck that has a great view of the city. Our time slot for that was 4:30 and the show was 8:00. As we walked up to Rockefeller, which is across the street from Radio City, there was already a line of people waiting to be let in. Like, not just a handful of eager people, tons of people.
Meanwhile, my wife and I walked in at 7:00 and got ourselves a drink and sat down. Knowing we had assigned seats, we felt no need to get there too early. Different strokes for different folks.
That being said, I'm sure you and your dad are going to have a great time. The guys put on a fantastic show and their show quality has only gone up over the years. My first show of theirs was essentially an empty stage with a backdrop and a few lights and I had the greatest time just enjoying the music itself. Then Radio City, they had more effects and lighting. I'm sure they're going to level up even more with this being an arena show. They sound just as great live as they do on the albums so you and him will not be disappointed.
Expect a lot of crowd singing, especially with the acoustics of an arena. If you're a social/crafty person, people trade friendship bracelets and other fun stuff.

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Thank you so much for the advice - I don't think we are going to be aiming for the limited time merch, but maybe some of the general stuff they'll have at the stands in the venue.
Makes me super happy to hear that we're in for a good show - I can't wait!
Also, that's so cool! I might have to make a few friendship bracelets myself to exchange. Thanks!

zilla06 (1y ago):
Truly try to live in the moment. Take a couple of pictures and a video or 2, but put your phone down and enjoy the experience. It's magical and you don't want to miss it because you were looking through your phone. Take a couple of moments to close your eyes and genuinely FEEL the happiness that you will experience.
I wish my Dad was still around so I could take him to a ST show. I hope y'all have a great time 💜

redfig1 (1y ago):
Speaking of standing in lines...I neglected the fact I'm 5 feet nothing and got floor tickets. What's the chances of getting barricade spots so I can actually see?

tanderullum (1y ago):
I'm five foot two, and attended an ST arena show in November. Was way too anxious about this (been to loads of metal gigs and live in a country with some of the tallest people on earth, so I'm constantly let down). Anyway I'm here to say that with ST's newest stage setup, everything is elevated pretty high up, so much so that you get to see stuff on stage even if you're not at the front. I layered up, brought a cheap fleece blanket and queued for three and a half hours (I'd travelled by airplane to see this show after all) and got a pretty decent spot near the stage, maybe 4th-5th row. This hobbit had several tall heads in front of her, but saw lots!
Besides, ST has plenty for everyone attending. Those further in the back get to see the absolutely magical light show that the people at barricade will mostly miss! Sometimes you just close your eyes and vibe with the most important thing - the music - anyway. And if you're not terribly shy like me you'll make many new friends too!
(Dreaming of the day people stop panicking about queue times and just stop with the elitist numbering system that goes on. Like if you need a nap and two whole meals during the time you queue, you're queueing too early. FFS)

redfig1 (1y ago):
Good to know, thanks!

lights-in-the-sky (9mo ago):
Sorry this is super late but I just grabbed a last-minute floor ticket and this makes me feel a bit better lol

krob58 (1y ago):
Last time my partner and I lined up something obscene like 10am (I can't remember) because I wanted to get her on the barricade and there were still like 15 people in line ahead of us already at that point. We did get it though (then she gave her spot to a shortie (affectionate, I am also short) while I was at merch but alas besides the point). Depends on the city but the ST crowd is kinda insane when it comes to lining up. This tour could be better or worse because stadiums, and the stage/seating map for some of the venues seems like there might be more barricade this time because sometimes the stage is T-shaped? Hard to tell.

redfig1 (1y ago):
Oh boy...

Brittany843 (1y ago):
When I went last year I skipped merch and got a pretty decent spot on the floor. I’m assuming because most people stopped at merch first. I was like a mile back in line too outside the door in Asheville.

Scarletstainedglass (1y ago):
I flew from the US to London for my first show but I’m sure things will be pretty much the same here.
The concerts are a whole experience thus why they are dubbed Rituals. Can be an overwhelming experience for some, I know it was for me. If you are in the GA/pit area expect mosh pits. They are encouraged by Vessel/III so keep that in mind if that isn’t your thing and move over a bit.
Crowds were very friendly and I would encourage you to check out Projekt Atlantic as they usually have a set color sticker to put over your phone flashlight for a set song. IE last tour it was green for Euclid.
Also, last tour had off site locations called popups to get merch that were decorated with sleep token items. Keep an eye for their socials for the locations if they do them for the US tour.
I think your dad will still enjoy it without knowing the music. The tours have been visually beautiful and there is sometimes shenanigans going on stage between the members to spice it up.
I hope you have the best time and welcome to the cult! 🤣

MisterBitterness42 (1y ago):
Dad will love it. Wear comfy shoes and clothes. Don’t worry about “fitting in,” music is for everyone, wear what you want. If I’m getting merch I usually do that first. Otherwise my size will be sold out. I’ll wear a plain white t to the show and just toss it in the trash and put on the merch so I don’t have to carry it. Oh, and talk to people while waiting in line, make friends, it makes the experience that much more fun!

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Yay, awesome! Glad to hear. Thank you for all the advice - it's really appreciated! 💜

bethadoodle024 (1y ago):
So this is dependent on if you have seats or got pit. If you got seats there is no need to line up hours before unless you want merch. The pit is mostly chill however some ST shows do create a mosh in the middle of the floor. From either place the show is spectacular! Your dad will enjoy even if he doesn’t know one song. Be prepared to ascend. 🥹🖤

PepPepPepp (1y ago):
I wanted to ask you a question about upper level tickets if you don't mind? You may not know but any opinion would be appreciated! I got tickets for the second upper level (nosebleed we used to say) for the Duluth show. But our tickets have a section and row number, but the seat number is not listed. Is that just a standing area but limited to the people in that section? Or actual seats in the "row" and the ticket just doesn't show them? I've never seen a ticket like that but it's been years since I went to a show like this. We mostly go to venues that were general admission but small or medium sized venues with assigned theater seating, (like the fox in atlanta). We got the tickets during presale and just snagged the only ones where there was 2 seats together. I didn't look at the tickets until later and I was curious about it. Any idea?

bethadoodle024 (1y ago):
I’m unfamiliar with that venue so I googled. Looks like you will have a seat & the rows are alphabetical. Weird no seat number, but it may populate later. If it doesn’t show on the actual ticket, does it show on your receipt?

PepPepPepp (1y ago):
Thank you so much! I will look into the receipt angle. I could have sworn I did the seat pop up at one point. I appreciate your help so much!!

bethadoodle024 (1y ago):
Welcome :)

Hadlee_ (1y ago):
mine are the exact same way, i’m assuming the seats will show up at some point or it’s a sort of “sit wherever on the row” type of deal.

PepPepPepp (1y ago):
Thank you. It's a relief to know. Have a great time at the show!

Good-Blueberry91 (1y ago):
What everyone else said, but, most importantly, it will ruin all other concerts you will ever go to. Other concerts can’t quite live up to the experience.

Brewcrew_2008 (1y ago):
I'm feeling this as a possibility even before going. I get emotional just listening while cleaning my kitchen. I am almost for sure going to cry at the show. 🤣 It's my first and I'm SO EXCITED. It's over 6 months away, and I feel like a 5 year old waking up to go to Disneyland now! 🤪

Patient_Tradition368 (1y ago):
Lol, I'm going to see Hozier like 2 weeks after ST. It's going to be a wildly different experience, but hopefully, it will help cut down on the post- show blues.

Good-Blueberry91 (1y ago):
Oh yeah. I forgot about the post show obsession/depression. Prepare for that too.

jmastaock (1y ago):
I think this is obviously extremely subjective lmao

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
This makes me even more excited... Thank you! 😊

dovahkiingle (1y ago):
Music, people, more music, merch lines, a little extra music.

Medium_Tomorrow_1166 (1y ago):
Comfortable closed toe shoes. If you plan on waiting in line more than a couple hours, bring some disposable water bottles and a couple Advil, you probably can’t bring them in but you don’t want to end up sick from dehydration. Bring an empty tote bag for merch, if you plan to buy a couple things. Some venues take cash, others are cashless. Check the policy for yours. Prepare to feel like you are attached to strangers at the hip since it will be so busy and packed and be patient. And of course Enjoy!!!!!

Patient_Tradition368 (1y ago):
As far as bags go, lots of arenas require clear plastic bags for security reasons, so be aware of that!

kingamara (1y ago):
I have no additional info to provide, but I hope yall have wonderful time!

Existing-Disaster287 (1y ago):
i'm also curious about the crowds, looking forward to this show! i havent been to a rock concert in a long minute! Most the venues i've been to are outside ones lol

Spiritual_Hat7507 [OP] (1y ago):
Yes, exactly! Last year, I saw Metallica and Breaking Benjamin/Staind. The crowds were vastly different from each other - I felt that Breaking Benjamin/Staind was a bit more rowdier than I anticipated (especially in comparison to Metallica).
From what I've read, it seems everyone generally has a positive experience with the crowds, so I'm sure it'll be a great time! 😊

refriedbeanboy (1y ago):
Can't speak for the concerts cuz this will be my first ritual too but if your dad is open minded about music I don't see why he wouldn't like them! My dad has been a metalhead since he was a teen and he raised me on classic rock/metal but he LOVES Sleep Token. I thought he'd be apart of the 'poser music' crowd but he's super interested in their unique sound and all of the visuals. I think any enjoyer of music can at least recognize the talent and enjoy the energy of the band on stage.

aljp78 (1y ago):
I saw them last year - To be honest the first half for me was terrible as I was just surrounded by people filming the entire show ion their phone and just standing still - Could barely see anything. I expect that will be worse now they are getting even bigger.
I managed to push myself to where others were forming a pit during Granite and the rest of the show was amazing. Decent pit, no phones

Ningy_WhoaWhoa (1y ago):
I go to a lot of shows and one thing that stood out to me about the last sleep token show was the large amount of people who did not understand show etiquette. I imagine this show will be similar. Just be respectful and mindful of your surroundings. If you must film or take pics don’t hold your phone high above your head blocking the view of those behind you. Don’t talk during songs especially the quiet parts. Just be present and enjoy the show.

raw_sauced9 (1y ago):
I had an interesting experience where people were getting rattled that others were moshing around them, getting upset about being bumped into etc.. Please let the mosh happen, or better yet, MAKE the mosh happen the band deserves the energy. The music has elements of metal and mosh pits are normal and encouraged, this isn't Taylor Swift. Getting bumped into at a metal show should not come as a surprise. If people are moshing around you and you're not game for it, just move to another spot. If you've never moshed before give it a try! You may love it.
but yeah If you have general admission floor you are not entitled to stand in the same spot the entire night. keep it fluid, roll with the crowd, move to where you're comfortable and have fun!!

whatsforsupa (1y ago):
The merch line was exceptionally long last time. I would jump in it as soon as possible if you want to get some.
The concerts are so much fun. If you don’t want to mosh, people are pretty respectful outside of the pit for the heavy songs.

dkofthemilkyway (1y ago):
So in general I would say, GO earlier than you think, but also be prepared to stand in line. There will be a lot of people around, so just beware that it will be loud at times and it may be warmer than you think inside the venue. Also, I cannot stress enough that you should consider earplugs. Some people don't use them, but your ears will thank you and it really won't dampen your fun.
If you want merch, get in line early. I was at the same venue to see an also sold out show and had to stand in line for a good hour to get to the merch line. I wanted to get a shirt I missed and went back and they were out of the bigger and smaller sizes in a lot of the stuff, so if you don't wear Medium, Large or Extra Large go to merch first. I will say that when I saw ST in a much smaller venue that was sold out I was in the merch line so long that the opening act played their whole set and ST started right as I got to the merch table. You probably won't run into that in this case, but I do recommend going to the line for merch ASAP. Also do know that a fair amount of times there are multiple areas that they have merch sellers and the one closest to where you walk in might be the busiest.
I think your dad will probably enjoy it. Even if they don't know the music, I think it will be an experience. Hope this helps.

Werewolfhugger (1y ago):
I was planning on 5 hours before the show, do you think that's good? Or should it be earlier if I want to get merch first?

Dangerous-Middle-423 (1y ago):
I took my dad to my first sleep token concert (Teeth of God Tour) too!! We’re actually going together again for the Even in Arcadia one as well.
If you’re planning on getting merch, then GET THERE EARLY. My dad and I got there an hour before the concert and the line was already triple wrapped along the streets…we did not get merch in fear we’d miss the main show.
ALSO Sleep Token fans are the kindest (generally) and my dad had a great time conversing with people—everyone was so kind and nice! I would definitely tell your dad to listen to the discography more as the concert comes up because it’s 100% performance 99% of the time (other than perhaps a brief message or two).
Hope you guys have a fucking good time!! Worship 🤘🏻

Gawker90 (1y ago):
https://youtu.be/kBpTxnj5g3c?si=apd-kWySpa2mdcCV
Here’s their concert in Nuremberg

brittlr24 (1y ago):
I’m taking my dad to the louder than life music festival in Louisville, my dad has always liked rock but more like 70’s and 80’s bands. Some newer ones also, he’s listened to sleep token with me and says he likes them. This will be my first concert since Backstreet Boys when I was young lol, I’m kinda nervous cause I get bad anxiety. I want to be closer to the stage kinda but I also don’t because I think i would get anxious feeling like I can’t move with that many people. I will definitely be getting the vip tickets to go into the the shaded lounge area if I decide to

BreakersB-C2 (1y ago):
I’m expecting my panties to be saturated. And that’s coming from a straight dude.

monkeyforce44 (1y ago):
3x ST shows with my kid (3 more me solo)…
You and your dad are going to have the best time. ❤️

x-akiren (1y ago):
The first time I saw Sleep Token, it was in a smaller sized venue and I was about 10 feet away from the stage. There was a pit or two but overall very chill and people just vibing. Waiting in line to get in, people were very friendly, I think their fanbase is super cool and get along well. I made a few friends at the concert and got some bracelets given to me. I've seen that people farther away or on balcony were treated to an insane lightshow and I was lowkey jealous seeing it from different points of view. I'm seeing them again in September and I picked first row balcony off to the side but still closer to the stage. I did this because I want to see the lightshow.
Wherever you're stationed, you're going to have a hell of a time. They put on a phenomenal show.

Ok-Entrepreneur-5067 (1y ago):
These guys are built to entertain, so I'm sure your dad will have a blast. Might even become a bigger fan seeing them first than he would just listening to them. Stage presence goes a long way for people who just love concerts.