Going to see sleep token on Nov, very excited. What should I expect? : r/SleepToken
Author: VikingHalloumi (2y ago)

Title says it all really! Hit me with your best experiences!

----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMENTS SECTION

CharliePGH (2y ago):
Take it all in. Don't waste time on merch if the line is super long. Don't record the entire concert on your phone. Please ensure you're well-fed and hydrated and enjoy the experience. Sleep Token has an incredible aesthetic that engages you on a visual and auditory level. They put on a fantastic show that is worth giving your full attention to. Lose yourself in it all

VikingHalloumi [OP] (2y ago):
This is how I like to experience all my concerts so I think this gig is going to be a special one!

ripmyrelationshiplol (2y ago):
Yeah, you can watch live recordings later. Just enjoy it while you’re there!

Ok-Hearing-2923 (2y ago):
Phone down hands up! ♥️

jacobs1113 (2y ago):
I spent 45 minutes in the merch line and I thought it was worth it. I’m wearing my t-shirt right now

whitemiketyson (2y ago):
Same here. I mean if you don’t care for whoever the opener is why not wait in line?

Azh_adi (2y ago):
Some lines go far past opener.
I’m looking at you Red Rocks 2024. May or may not have been in line until halfway through Sleep Tokens set. Through rain and some cold wind… myself and like 4-5 other dudes that didn’t know each other stood our ground. Missed connections occurred, we went to our spots to see the rest of the show. I found some homies I met in line and we closed out the night. We all got to walk out of there happy. Until the rideshare line in the freezing wind :D
I love my shirt and poster though. This poster is framed and I’ll have it forever.

CharliePGH (2y ago):
This is what I was talking about. I was in the same line, got in the venue relatively early, I didn't miss any ST but I did miss the entire opener. Love the stuff I got but definitely wouldn't do it again

mczolomon (2y ago):
Expect a transcendent experience.
My 1st time I saw them in Dallas. Lightning everywhere ( I was outdoors ). Loud thunder, and I kid you not, began pouring rain right when Rain began. I just stood there transfixed, soaked, and happy as could be.

Katagirl49 (2y ago):
You’re so lucky. The footage of the lightning syncing with ii’s drumming was out of this world

Ok-Hearing-2923 (2y ago):
Transcendent is exactly the word

mczolomon (2y ago):
The crowd somewhat dispersed since the rain was so heavy, I got to walk up real close and get a good video of Euclid. Very special night.

Senior_Discussion137 (2y ago):
Expect to go home and sob uncontrollably after.

Arthur_Frane (2y ago):
Expect to meet amazing people. You may be given gifts like bracelets or other tokens to remember the event. You'll likely see cosplayers if the venue allows masks. If you're in standing, be ready for crowd surfers to come overhead.
Be ready for the tears, especially if, like me, you can't hold yourself together for some songs. They played some intense sequences when we saw them in May. The emotions happen and it feels beautiful.
Expect a light show that will dazzle and stun you at times. Expect everything. Expect Vessel to do silly things. Expect them all to give you their best and express their gratitude.
Also, possibly, expect lemons.

GDBNCD (2y ago):
I don't want to spoil anything, but the lighting is incredible. I had never seen anything like it.
Sonically they also sound great. Each band member has their own personality. Vessel is vessel. Dancing like nobody's watching. III is kind of crazy on stage and IV is more reserved.
They're all great showmen. Probably the best show I've been to.

MaroonMush (2y ago):
Yes! The lights were amazing!

No_Dragonfruit_7532 (2y ago):
Don’t stand too close to a subwoofer like I did. If you do, don’t be ashamed to wear ear plugs! Tinnitus isn’t a great souvenir.

redtea_arizona (2y ago):
Loop experience earplugs work well for this! I have a pair and they’re great.

No_Dragonfruit_7532 (2y ago):
Awesome! Saving this for next time

Bust3dGG (2y ago):
People are ashamed to wear hearing protection? lmao

DeathByLego34 (2y ago):
Yes! My coworkers just lightly mocked me for wearing them, but I’ve been to seven concerts this year so.

2004frnk (2y ago):
expect a spiritual awakening. it will be the most religious experience of your life.

moody_rose (2y ago):
i can only say i'm pretty envious ;( no concerts in italy... lucky you, enjoy your concert!

[deleted] (2y ago):
To have the time of your life. Period.

[deleted] (2y ago):
I cried as soon as he sang the first word xD but an absolutely beautiful experience, at the venue I went to the fan base was so sweet and amazing. a bunch of us had made bracelets to trade which i know is somewhat controversial here depending on who you ask but we had fun with it and to me its a way to get a momento if you cant afford merch (i paid $50 or $60 USD for a crossbody bag with the logo). There was also some Vessel cosplays and one guy was letting everyone take pics with him. I also saw a mom and her little girl wearing matching tshirts and skirts and it was adorable.

Educational_Metal306 (2y ago):
I agree with the phone down, hands up. Total pictures I took were probably like 6 and 1 short video. I understand people want to have those keepsakes for later but to just be there in the moment and live it, is fucking amazing. It was a very surreal experience with the one I just went to in may. Enjoy! It’ll be amazing.

MaroonMush (2y ago):
They’re even better in person. It felt unreal to be there and get to experience them like that. But be ready for the post concert depression. 🥲

Katagirl49 (2y ago):
I already know i’m going to be devastated flying home

repleoi (2y ago):
post concert depression for the next week at least😭

Sapphire_sky_1975 (2y ago):
There’s a useful article
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EQUPzcnUJQVU4rz9xMEmdJHKu1JBEUGzI1lzSte4Za0/mobilebasic

[deleted] (2y ago):
Annoying fans. Trust me, you will come across a few people at the gig who are fucking feral.
Try get a good spot because EVERYONE will be watching through their phones and that'll make it hard to see.
The mosh pit sucks.
Just vibe and try not to let anyone ruin for you

VikingHalloumi [OP] (2y ago):
Luckily I’m seated so I can just watch and take it in from a good seat!

[deleted] (2y ago):
Hell yeah, I sincerely hope you enjoy your time. They put on such a wonderful show.

Scarlett456789 (2y ago):
Went to the show in nyc…all the way from Vancouver Canada…..so worth it…..now I’m going to the show in Hamburg Germany in November with a girl that I met in line at the nyc show….the whole experience is amazing….the lines are long but worth it and the post concert depression is real 🖤🖤

MMA_l0ver97 (2y ago):
Take me with you

VikingHalloumi [OP] (2y ago):
Join us!