CAN SOMEONE EXPLAIN THE LORE OF GHOST?
Author: Worried_Price2034 (2y ago)

I'm new to ghost and i heard there's lore can someone explain it to me

----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMENTS SECTION

Little_Sunshine_1013 (2y ago):
Welcome! This video does an incredible job establishing a timeline for the band within the context of the lore without spoiling the movie 👻

mr_kitty974 (2y ago):
MOVIE!?? THERES A MOVIE!?! WTH DID I MISS

Lycan_Jedi (2y ago):
It's called Rite Here Rite Now. You can stream it for a week on Veeps for $10.

obin_gam (2y ago):
They are satanic ghouls who aim to take over the world, starting all the way from myspace.
Thats the lore.

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
This is gonna be long, but I had it at the ready
Let's start with the basics:
Ghost is a theatrical band headed by Tobias Forge. They are a concept band. The concept is that there is a satanic church that mirrors the Catholic church. There is a clergy, Papas (their version of the Pope), sisters of sins, and the Nameless Ghouls and Ghoulettes (the band). The Papas are all played by Tobias with different masks. He does most of the writing and playing for the recordings. The band during concerts (the Ghouls and Ghoulettes) are contract musicians. They can basically come and go as they please as long as the label decides to sign with them again. The fans have given names to the Nameless Ghouls so that they can be told apart on stage. They do have slight visual differences that already tell them apart. The Ghouls and Ghoulettes appearances change with who is heading the Ghost Project.
The story details:
The church is run by a mysterious clergy. We only know of 2 members of the clergy besides Papa. There is Sister Imperator, who is bascially the Mother Superior of the church, and Mr. Psaltarian. We're not sure what exactly his role is, but we know he's an important member of the clergy. The Ministry is located in Linköping, Sweden.
The Ghost Project is a clergy backed project in which the then Papa and his Nameless Ghouls and Ghoulettes tour around the world doing public rituals to spread the word of The Olde One and gain new followers. The project is supposed to be in conjunction with their other duties as Papa (converting world leaders to their cause, toppling nations, opening new churches, etc)
Each Papa (minus Nihil) stays for one album and and handful of tours per cycle. At the end of their tours, they are then retired in some way. All of the Papas are from the Emeritus bloodline. They all have a familial trait: their eyes. One eye is green, and the other is white.

Papa Emeritus I (his name is Primo) was the first introduced when the band started. His album was Opus Eponymous, and he headed the first tours. Due to him being the first Papa, his personality wasn't too heavily fleshed out like the others. At the end of his tour, he simply retired, and his younger brother ascended to Papa.
Papa Emeritus II's (his name is Secondo) album was Infestissumam, and he had tours as well. While on stage, Secondo was stern and commanding. There was a video online that came out that was basically like "A Day in the Life of Secondo," where we find out that he is also a suave ladies man. At the end of his run, a video was released online called "The Summoning." In it, Sister Imperator has summoned the Nameless Ghouls (there weren't any Ghoulettes yet at this point) and starts bashing Secondo. Calling him a miserable, bitter old man who accomplished nothing outside of the Ghost Project. At the end of it, it is announced that his three months younger brother would be taking over as Papa.
Papa Emeritus III's (his name is Terzo. Yes, all three of them are named the Italian words for First, Second, and Third) album was Meliora and did multiple tours. Terzo was incredibly popular, and it's easy to see why. He was incredibly charismatic, flirty/sexual, and suave, while also being an absolute dork (watch the "He Is" video and look up his kazoo, you'll see). He is also the only Papa to win a Grammy (for Cirice). At his last show, he was mid song when two men in suits dragged him off stage. He was followed up by another two men in suits, escorting an old and decrepit looking Papa with an oxygen tank on wheels with a mask. He says, in Italian, "I am Papa Emeritus Zero, the party is over. The Middle Ages have begun."
Papa Nihil is Papa Emeritus Zero (Nihil means 0). He is old and in not so great health (he tries to prove this wrong by attempting to play the saxophone, but Sister Imperator stops him, remember this). He is also the only Papa not played by Tobias. It is during his time as Papa (again) that the internet series "Chapters" was introduced. We learn through the chapters that Nihil and Sister Imperator used to have a thing. We are also introduced to a new character: Cardinal Copia.
Cardinal Copia is Papa Nihil's right hand and the second most recipient of the Employee of the Month award. He is clumsy, dorky, and a little timid. He rides an adult sized tricycle around the ministry. I'm gonna be a little biased, Cardinal Copia is my favorite. He will say or ask something out of pocket and finish it up with "Okie dokie." During Cardinal Copia's time, he wrote an album called Prequelle and did multiple tours, the last called The Ultimate Tour Named Death. It was during Cardi's time that we learn that the previous Papa's live in the ministry and Sister Imperator, Papa Nihil, and the clergy have them killed off and displayed in plexiglass coffins. If you had VIP tickets for the tours, you could go and see them in person (they were brought to each tour location). We also learned that back when Papa Nihil was still in his first run as Papa (late 1960s), he released an EP with 2 songs. This was called "7 Inches Of Satanic Panic" and had the songs "Kiss the Go-Goat" and "Mary On A Cross" on it. Now, Papa Nihil still wants to be a part of the action since he is Papa, so he gets involved once per concert. Prequelle has a song on it called "Miasma." It's a purely instrumental track, and it has a killer sax part in it. That's where Nihil comes in. Note: The Nihil on stage isn't the same actor as in the Chapters. It's actually one of the Ghouls (Swiss) dressed as Nihil and wearing a Nihil mask. At the last concert of the Cardinal's last tour, Nihil dies after his solo. Cardi comes out on stage and gets surrounded by Sisters of Sin. When they disperse, we see Cardinal Copia in full Papal makeup and a chasuble. Since Nihil died, the next in line for the papacy is Copia.
Papa Emeritus IV (note: Copia does not mean 4th in Italian) rose to Papacy right as covid hit (it was alarmingly on the nose. Prequelle's main theme is the Black Death. They played a show in Mexico City, and an attendee at the concert became the first person in Mexico to die of covid) . During covid, we see in the Chapters that him and Sister Imperator get plastic surgery done (this was to explain Sister Imperator changing actresses again. For Copia, I'm not sure, I've heard different things like Tobias wanted it to look different to he needed the mask to be more comfortable for performing). It was also during this chapter that it was hinted that Imperator has a deeper connection to Cardi (including this, she refuses to call him Papa) than just clergy members. More chapters followed after that. We see that Papa Nihil is still around as a ghost, and we are introduced to Mr. Psaltarian. Once the world opened again, Papa started touring again. Because the Miasma bit in concert was such a hit with fans, they decided to keep it in the show with a brief resurrection via defibrillator. Through the chapters we learn that Copia is the bastard son of Sister Imperator and Papa Nihil (making Primo, Secondo, and Terzo his half brothers) and that Copia is aware that his time as Papa is running out, despite all of the success he has brought to the cause. All of this leads us to the movie: Rite Here, Rite Now.
*BELOW THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR THE MOVIE*
During the movie, Copia keeps trying to make Imperator and Nihil understand that he can continue carrying the Ghost project and not end up like his brothers. Imperator and Nihil keep pushing that it's time to move on. At the end, we see Copia go up into a hot air balloon and look down and see Imperator below looking up at him. We are given flashbacks to whe Copia was born and learn that he has a twin (Copia is Italian for copy). Afterward, Copia falls and hits the ground but is physically okay. The same cannot said for Imperator. When Copia comes to after the fall, he sees that his mother has died. While mourning her, Mr. Psaltarian comes up to Copia with a letter from his mother. We learn that she has had a medical condition for a while, and that's what she died from. With her death, Copia is Papa nomore. Copia is now Frater Imperator. In the end, Tobias trolls us with a brief shadow of our new Papa, but that's it. We currently do not know who Papa is right now.

mr_kitty974 (2y ago):
holy shit man you are a unit

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
Thank you! I try my best (and by that, I mean my neurospiciness is more than happy to info dump xD)

mr_kitty974 (2y ago):
yeah it sure did seem like you had fun typing allat (/gen), i could do the same thing w FNAF

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
Duuuude, same. I love me some FNAF. I was a Daycare Attendent for Halloween last year :D

Worried_Price2034 [OP] (2y ago):
Thank you for this now I understand why he says I'm going to sing he used to sing when Papa performs Mary on a cross

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
No problem! There's a lot of lore there, but it's so worth it to dive into

MickIsAlwaysLate (2y ago):
Holy shit. This is the most succinct explanation of Ghost I've ever seen!

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
Gonna make me tear up! Thank you! That's what I was aiming for, but I tend to doubt myself a lot.

MickIsAlwaysLate (2y ago):
Nope. You absolutely *killed* it. Well done! Also, this deserves to be pinned at the top \m/

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
BRB, gently crying in the corner. You made my night, thank you 🧡🖤🧡

eppydeservedbetter (2y ago):
There’s a lot to delve into.
I always recommend to look up a YouTube video about Ghost lore, and you can check out the chapter videos on Ghost’s official YouTube account.
There’s also a guide in the rules of the other Ghost sub, GhostBC

georgmierau (2y ago):
Once upon a time there was Papa…
He might have invented Google, so use it to find https://thebandghost.fandom.com/wiki/Ghost

[deleted] (2y ago):
I can’t add anything that Beetlejuicex_3 ‘s perfect synopsis and the YT links didn’t already cover, just want to say welcome to the congregation! 🖤 👻

Worried_Price2034 [OP] (2y ago):
Thank you I found out about them from Mary on a cross probably how most new fans did

[deleted] (2y ago):
MOAC was my first favorite, recommended to me by my amazing kid. Their next recommendations were Dance Macabre, Jesus He Knows Me, and Year Zero. It’s been a year and a half of musical bonding for sure.

Beetlejuicex_3 (2y ago):
Thank you!!! 😭

LumenGhoul (2y ago):
So. Amazing guy (Mary Gore) branched out on his own and summoned a bunch of demons to be his band.