Full Ghost Lore : r/Ghostbc
Author: Pspreviewer100 (8y ago)

In case you're a new fan or an old fan but you aren't familiar with the lore of Ghost, this is the post for you!
I wrote down all the lore so far and I update this post whenever something new happens!
Enjoy!
-
*Back in 2008 an organization called The Clergy has initiated the Ghost project.*
Goal of the project is to take down churches, recruit powerful individuals and infiltrate in the highest positions of society.
Papa Emeritus was chosen to be the leader in the first era (Opus Eponymous era) of Ghost project in 2010.
Not much is known about him, he was an old man, quite evil with a strong stance and willing to spread the message of Satan.
Even tho he had a good run, he did not reach the heights the Clergy wished for.
-
*December 15th, 2012*
Papa Emeritus finishes the concert, while Genesis plays he bows to the crowd and hands his microphone to Papa Emeritus 2 and so starts the second era (Infestissumam).
Papa Emeritus 2 was chosen to be the successor to Papa 1 cause he was one of the ministry. They thought he was the right person, he was, as they said, like fine wine and he happened to like a hard rocking sexy beat.
Not much is known of Papa Emeritus 2 but still more than  we knew about the first one. In Year Zero video we saw an "Unmasked" Papa 2, we know he was a ladies man and he loved to party.
Papa Emeritus 2 had a great run, still, the Clergy was not satisfied.
As Sister Imperator, the main spokeswoman of the Clergy, has said, they still didn't take over any governments, no powerful individuals, nothing.
-
*June 3rd, 2015*
Genesis plays, Papa Emeritus 2 comes out "unmasked" ready to leave, and hands his microphone to his full 3 months younger brother, Papa Emeritus 3, and leaves to spend the rest of his days in his harem filled with women, animals and alcohol.
And thus the era 3 (Meliora era) begins.
Papa Emeritus 3 had a great start, he managed to spread the message a bit further than two leaders before him.
But, he lost himself in the process. Seeing that he enjoys being in the spotlight he got a new suit, and kicked of a tour called Popestar that was more about him than spreading the message. After a while, seeing that the Clergy is not very happy about that, he goes into a church to hold a ceremony where he baptized women among, other things.
Sadly for him, it was not enough.
-
*September 30th, 2017*
In the middle of performing Monstrance Clock, men in suits got on stage and took away Papa Emeritus 3.
Right after that, an old man, followed by two more men in suits, carrying an oxygen mask for him got to the center of the stage. He introduced himself as Papa Emeritus Zero and informed us that the party was over and that it was time for the dark ages.
-
*March, 2018*
Back in the Ministry, Papa Emeritus Zero is talking to Sister Imperator. She informs him that its time for new blood as his sons didn't manage to complete the mission. They needed someone like Zero but in his youth.
We learn now that all three previous Papas were his sons.
Somebody knocks on the door, and that is Cardinal Copia.
Papa Zero was not very happy about that at first but he agreed to take him under his wing and guide him on his way.
We learn that Cardinal Copia has been Zeros right hand man for years and that he has the second most employee of the month awards.
Thus era 4 (Prequelle era) begins, Cardinal Copia is the new leader now and all previous Papas were killed so that they can be displayed, they went back on the road  to be in the spotlight forever.
Some time later, Sister Imperator has a car crash that leaves her in the hospital to recover.
She got a strange phone call, someone called The Old One. We have yet to see who that is.
And Cardinal Copia is currently on a good way, spreading the message of the Clergy.
-
*Prequelle era update 1:*
So we now know how Papa Emeritus Nihil and Sister Imperator met. It was on a party, and she made him a Papa.
Now we know how they get one white eye, a straight punch to it. (For all those who are wondering, yes you can lose color in your eye that way but you would also get a bit worse eyesight for it.)
Also now we know that Vampires are part of the universe, at least they were at  the time when Sister and Nihil met.
-
*Prequelle era update 2:*
So, Sister Imperator got into a car accident. After some time in the hospital she was finally released and revealed to look completely different now.
Cause of muscle atrophy apparently. While she was in the hospital she got a call from a mysterious character we don't know yet called The Old One.
(Not to be mistaken with Papa)
Also, Cardinal Copia and Sister have an important announcement to make but we yet have to see what it is.
-
*Prequelle era update 3 (Long overdue):*
After taking Sister out of the hospital we see Papa Nihil in the Clergy headquarters remembering his youth and longing for his days as the frontman of Ghost.We then see Nihil talk with Sister about Cardinal and given that he failed to win the Grammy, Nihil would like to have another shot at leading the band.Sister reminds Nihil about what happened last time.
Nihil was a ladies man and he kissed the females in the crowd after the concert in the 1969 which didn't sit well with Sister who was also pregnant at the time (POSSIBLY with Copia - it's unknown). Also the evil side of Sister is shown, she's so possessive that she burns another woman's forehead with a cigarette cause shes looking at Nihil performing. After that she left Nihil.In September of 2019 it was 50th anniversary of Nihil's album, 7" Of Satanic Panic, which he re-released behind Sister's back as she wasn't too fond of that idea.
After that things were quiet as the Prequelle tour went on, until March 3rd of 2020.While performing his sax solo, Papa Nihil collapsed on stage and he was pronounced dead. Immediately after that, a ritual started and Cardinal Copia was anointed as Papa Emeritus IV.
-
*Retcons & plot holes*
While reading this you might've noticed a few inconsistencies and a few loose ends. And you're not wrong, there's quite a few.
1.
During Opus Eponymous era we were told that the Ghost project was initiated in 2008 but during Prequelle era we learn that Ghost existed for generations and there was a whole lot of Papas throughout history. Now, in my opinion, this doesn't really retcon the original lore, it expands on it. I'd say that after Papa Nihil messed everything up in the 80s, The Clergy placed Ghost project on hold until things settled down so it wasn't initiated but rather re-initiated in 2008.
2.
Term "Olde One" was first used as name for the first episode of Papaganda. However during the Prequelle era Sister gets a call from someone going by the name The Old One. Now, Olde One refers to Papa Emeritus 1 which we know is dead so there's no way that they are the same person. We have yet to find out who that is, but in my opinion that plot line has been abandoned.
3.
The age of all Papas has never been revealed but based on their appearance we can roughly guess how old they are. Papa 1 was about 70 years old, Papa 2 was in this 60s and Papa 3 was in his late 40s which implies that Papa Nihil was at least 90 years during Prequelle. All of that falls apart when we take a look at Dance Macabre, which depicts Nihil in his 30s, which is when he met Sister sometime in the 70s. (Note: We also don't know who the mother is but it's implied and theorized that it might be Sister. Mother to all 3 Papas and Cardinal.) Also, we have been told at the start of Meliora that Papa 3 is "full 3 months younger" than Papa 2 which also doesn't make sense when you compare how they look. Either one aged horribly or the other aged remarkably good.
4.
The eye. At first it was thought that one white eye has been genetically passed through the bloodline, it's what originally sparked the theory that Papas were related. However during Dance Macabre we see that during Nihil's initiation, Sister punched him in the eye (that's how you get anisocoria IRL also.) which gave him the one white eye. So I guess we can conclude that it's part of the initiation and not genetics. HOWEVER... Cardinal Copia. He has the white eye despite not being Papa, and he's also not part of the bloodline (officially). So, if even the cardinals have the white eye then it's done to everyone who joins the clergy. Also, Papa 1 originally had two white eyes in the short Ritual promo video, but Tobias said he had to stop wearing the other contact due to his eye rejecting it.
-
*Unanswered Questions*
1.
If Cardinal Copia has the second most employee of the month awards, then who has the most?
2.
Who is The Old One?
3.
Who was the person in goat costume at Dance Macabre party?
4.
Was Nihil's friend killed?
5.
How did the dude who opened the door at the party know who Nihil was?
6.
Are ghouls forced into playing the instruments?
-
*Most notable achievements of Ghost project*
Grammis
2014 	Infestissumam 	Best Hard Rock/Metal Album	Won
2015 	Meliora 	Best Hard Rock/Metal Album 	Won
2016 	Popestar 	Best Hard Rock/Metal Album 	Won
Metal Hammer Golden Gods Awards
2012 	Ghost 	Breakthrough Band 	Won
Loudwire Music Awards
2015 	Nameless Ghoul 	Best Bassist 	Won
2015 	Meliora 	Best Metal Album 	Won
2016    "Square Hammer" 	Best Metal Video 	Won
P3 Guld Awards
2014 	Infestissumam 	Best Rock/Metal Album 	Won
Bandit Rock Awards
2016 	Ghost 	Best Swedish Live Act 	Won
2016 	Ghost 	Best Swedish Group 	Won
2016    Meliora 	Best Swedish Album 	Won
2017 	Ghost 	Best Swedish Live Act 	Won
2017 	Ghost 	Best Swedish Group 	Won
2017 	Popestar 	Best Swedish Album 	Won
Grammy Awards
2016 	"Cirice" 	Best Metal Performance 	Won
Last update: September 16th, 2021.
Formatting, added *Retcons & Plot holes* and *Unanswered Questions* .
There you have it people, hope you have enjoyed reading!
As one person suggested, here are the links:
*Introduction of Papa 1:* https://youtu.be/mknglj5mcok
*Papa 1 last performance and Papa 2 takes over:* https://youtu.be/xm0Y0awVExo
*Papa 2 last performance and Papa 3 takes over:* https://youtu.be/tggLmC6kNxg
*Last Papa 3 performance and introduction of Papa Zero:* https://youtu.be/l7YZhvhuAtY
*Introduction of Cardinal Copia:* https://youtu.be/e_74Ijj6EpY
*How Sister met and made Nihil a Papa:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Gr63DiEUxw
*Sister car crash:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8m_xdjLSOe4
*Old One calls:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjXUXkEF6EA
*Important announcement and leaving hospital:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVyMUtwvexs
*7" Of Satanic Panic flashback:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyxrzUe_TDM
*Papa Nihil dying on stage & Copia becomes Papa IV:* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpwO6qXiSto

----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMENTS SECTION

SnakesAndShit (8y ago):
Technically Copia still isn’t the leader, and he won’t be until he’s promoted. That’s why we have Papa Nihil as our snoo!
But other than that you did a really good job!

Dad_Bod_The_God (1y ago):
It’s a really old post, you’re missing where Copia was promoted, had his run, and has now handed things over to Papa V. I’m also here trying to get a refresher before the full album drop, lol.

Goosterion (1y ago):
Esto es spoiler chiquito, pero en unos 5 días sale el último comic de Sister (en ing) pero en estos 3 numeros nos muestran su vida y cómo conoció al Nihil, cosa que al menos a mi me deja en wtf porque contradice que se conocieron en una fiesta. Ellos ya se conocian de antes, en Europa. Incluso leyendo como es sister... Que agradezca Nihil que ella no le cortó la cabeza o la entrepierna tras lo de kiss the go goat

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
Thank you for posting this!
I do have a question/theory: this new character, "The Old One" - as someone who has been a devoted fan since the very beginning, do you think they are referring to Lucifer himself when they referred to their father in older songs as opposed to Papa Nihil (what everyone says it is in reference to), thus making "The Old One" Lucifer HIMSELF ? & That being said.... Cardinal Copia: a young Lucifer? Lucifer's messenger as opposed to the Church's, hence The Sister's accident etc?
Any thoughts, fellow ghouls & ghulehs, OP included?
Also: for the newcomers and doubters, OP - maybe provide links to those shows replacing the old Papas as all have been caught on camera? (Only suggesting this to prevent trolling etc. I know this is all true as I've seen the footage, but newbies don't seem to believe old lore like this and can come off as hateful gatekeepers and such.)

morbidcuriosityshop (8y ago):
All I'm going to say is... "Old one, master, all beauty lies within you. Your infernal majesty."

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
Yup. I always got the vibe they spoke of Lucifer and not Nihil. Just my opinion though

morbidcuriosityshop (8y ago):
Oh, absolutely. It didn't sound like Nihil, that's for sure.
I think it would be really exciting to see Lucifer in the Ghost mythos in a more official way.

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
Exciting is too little of a word for such a great connection - I always drew/draw sigils of Lucifer alongside a grucifix when doing art, but that's just me...
I also went to Catholic school my entire life and was raised Roman Catholic, so I know the symbology, the upside down cross = crucifixion of SAINT PETER by Emperor/Pope... NERO. let's play connect the dots!
(ʘ‿ʘ) Ain't that right, sweet Saint Peter?

morbidcuriosityshop (8y ago):
And if you know about the lawsuit, that line becomes ever so clearer.

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
Of course I know ;) I've been on here since the 666 subscriber celebration! 🖤
(there's also a sub just for the suit/translating how it was etc if you're interested!)

Pspreviewer100 [OP] (8y ago):
I honestly don't know what to think of The Old One, kinda have the feeling he is the Mastermind behind the Ghost project. Papa Nihil only serves him. I guess there should be more people like Sister who run things. We'll see what the future brings, so far we don't know enough. And that idea for links, I'll add them to the post!

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
I had a similar conclusion with The Old One being the Omnipotent power behind "The Ghost Project". Sounds like an X-Files episode ;)
To continue the "Lucifer = The Old One" theory:
What if The Sister got "killed" for leaking too much sacred information to said Ghost Project? Papa Nihil serves as Lucifer's messenger in this theory, aka The Old One, and that's the only reason he is still alive despite his health --- Maybe the blood of the Emeritus bloodline will be used to make Nihil stronger and he just needed a puppet like Copia to distract us because the Sister's blood was the last part of the "evolution" to make Nihil COMPLETELY Omnipotent?
Hmmmmm....
Edit: thanks for adding links! nemA!

Pspreviewer100 [OP] (8y ago):
Well there has to be an explanation on how is Papa Nihil still alive. Also, we still don't know who has the most employee of the month awards, Old One could also be that, we'll have to wait and see.

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
I forgot about those weird awards! Hmm.. Speaking biblically, Lucifer won so many "awards" he got cast down to Hell for being too powerful, idk, I kinda hope my theory makes sense even if it turns out to not be true. Either way, I love their lore and how clear and objective you stated the history of Ghost for those who are uninformed. Thanks for humoring my obscure theories!

camillabok (8y ago):
I think the Old One is Lucifer given how Sister was ridiculously giddy after talking to him. She was awestruck! 😍 Besides, she was never too impressed by any of the Papas and she is in a position of authority when it comes to Papa Nihil, even though they have the hots for one another other. Btw, I think it’s hysterical that they go back to their 20s whenever they’re horny. As for Cardinal Copia I think he’s the Angel of Death: “And I looked and behold, a pale horse. And its rider’s name was Death.” - the apocalypse or something. I have no idea why Sister was in an accident but I almost peed my pants when Papa came visit her in the hospital. Can’t wait for Chapter 6!!!!

hellohaley (8y ago):
Ooh I never made that connection between Copia and death. Will he bring death to Papa Nihil?

camillabok (8y ago):
If he does, we revolt!

Aneurysm821 (8y ago):
I feel like “The Old One” being Lucifer is what they’re trying to imply, especially with the father references. Hell even Copia does that sometimes. That said, that feels too predictable and too much like the kind of thing they would use for a bait and switch

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
I agree honestly. Love the bait switch theory. & As much as I love Copia, he is but a puppet being held in suspense IMO

Aneurysm821 (8y ago):
New theory: The year is 2020. Cardinal Copia is giving a performance somewhere in America. A man, dressed in cleric’s robes comes on stage during Dance Macabre. He whispers into the Cardinal’s ear and the music stops. “I regret to inform you,” says the Cardinal, “that I am being demoted and my position is to be taken by one greater than myself.” Insert the Old One as the fifth head of the Ghost project.

hellohaley (8y ago):
I think the old one is definitely Satan.
I have another weird theory that is probably totally wrong.
In the video for Cerice, there's a blonde man and woman in the crowd at the end of the show. I think that's Lucifer in the flesh and the nun he corrupted. I think the little boy in the talent show is the anti Christ (their son). He is so young but already has so much power over everyone in the crowd. Satan and the mother are super proud after his performance because he's going to grow up and take over.

Taki_the_chimaera (7y ago):
I thought the same thing!

camillabok (8y ago):
OP, don’t forget Papa 2 is Italian. I love the Papaganda videos. :-D

LovesToSpooge2001 (8y ago):
What about his father's father's father's father's father's father? I really want to know more about that guy.

hellohaley (8y ago):
This is what I want to know! Who is the ORIGINAL papa and how did the Nihil line start? I have a theory/wish I made in a part a week or so ago but I don't know if I'm getting more into it than the band is and am going back further than they intended haha

BaconTits_3000 (8y ago):
Making Lucifer the Papa of all Papa's? 🤔

kaylala85 (8y ago):
As a new fan I was very keen to learn some background. I understood most things before but your post has helped a lot. Thanks 👹

alostrael444 (8y ago):
Perhaps The Old One is part of the reason that Prime Mover is back in the set list: " Secretive nun / Bearing the old one's bastard son." I think I've seen on the sub before speculation that Cardi C is Sister Imperator's bastard son with Papa Nil, but her getting a phone call from The Old One kind of leads me to believe otherwise.

Clown_BabyCK (8y ago):
Cardi B is confirmed as the new leader. She lead the world to stupidity now she leads them to Lucifer as Mama Emeritus

hellohaley (8y ago):
I don't think she's his son, but I do want to know what Copia's origin/lineage is

arancarkitty (8y ago):
I would love to know who the mother for all the Papas are since we know Papa Nihil is their father, but he and Sister Imperator clearly have had a little something something going on

DrZaeusBurgers (8y ago):
Good job . Maybe we can keep this going by having us Ghost old times add additional stories of their favorite Ghost experiences of the past, what ever that might be.

Taki_the_chimaera (7y ago):
I want to point out that in the Papaganda videos, the 'hard rocking sexy beat' and 'refined wine' lines are Papa II's ego while talking about himself.
" When time was up for the first guy, they wanted to find a successor in house, me being one of the ministry, obviously rose to the opportunity. Not only because of the 'carnal rewards' of all this, but also because I just happen to love a hard rocking sexy beat.
Besides being a ladies man, I am first and foremost a singer and entertainer, of sorts, enjoying my golden years. I'm like refined wine. "
I've done the transcripts for the Papaganda vids (as well as others) for anyone who wants to have a read: https://www.reddit.com/r/Ghostbc/comments/aaon98/ghost_bc_the_olde_one_papaganda_ep_1_what_happens/
I have a theory about Nihil and his beginnings with Sister Imp and the ministry. I got the feeling that Nihil didn't know who he was, but the guy who answers the door at the Dance Macabre party recognizes him and says 'We've been waiting for you' like he was lost, or they had to wait for him to come to them, like maybe his choosing to take his birthright is what would make his sons powerful enough, etc., to be the chosen ones for the Ghost Project. Kind of like how the stories say that Lucifer can't take your soul, you have to give it freely. I think him meeting Sister Imp and their spark triggered it and he recognized it in himself and she helped him become who he was meant to be, she facilitated his rebirth. That's what I picked up from the video, and given the personalities of the three Papas we know, their attitudes give the impression they grew up in the ministry, whereas it was all new to Nihil before Sister Imp, but by Destiny or Fate he found his way back to them as Lucifer knew he would. In 'He Is' the lines " He's the shining and the light without whom I cannot see " " ...he's the force that made me be " and Papa III covers his green eye so you see only the white eye, like he one he gets when she punches him, makes me think this is how he sees the things in both our world and Lucifer's world that others can't see? I'm not sure how to describe it. LOL But the eye gives him the 'sight,' a gift from Lucifer to all the Papas, or perhaps because Cardi has it too, but Sister Imp doesn't, it's a privilege reserved only for the higher clergy members.

notmenotyounobody (8y ago):
Thank you for sharing man - great read !!

MechaPumpkin (4y ago):
Just a note. Nowhere in this post do you start that Papa Zero is Papa Nihil. You just start using the latter name. You might want to clarify that. As someone reading the lore for the first time, I was a little confused.

AstroBookwormSinger (2y ago):
Thank you for this comment! I realised it was the same person but yeah there was no explanation.

darkmelchiah (1y ago):
Fell into the same hole. Gladly, my sister (whom was introduced by me to the band and went on to get WAY MORE hooked than me) knew the lore and explained it tome.

Time_Cardiologist669 (2y ago):
Is this still updated??

Triniweeaboo (1y ago):
I await the additions now that papa the fifth is here !

Pspreviewer100 [OP] (1y ago):
I'll absolutely update the post with what's missing and what's to come!

Lectrakiz (8y ago):
This is so helpful!

Clown_BabyCK (8y ago):
Asked for this a few days ago, thanks for the lore!

shortalay (8y ago):
When did Sister Imperator get in a car crash, is there a video?
EDIT: Video where Sister Imperator crashed: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8m_xdjLSOe4 Video where Sister Imperator is called by The Old One: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjXUXkEF6EA
Does anyone else think The Old One sounds exactly like Malcolm McDowell?

Pspreviewer100 [OP] (8y ago):
https://youtu.be/8m_xdjLSOe4

BearShaman (8y ago):
Maybe I’m tired but in each of those videos it looked like the outgoing Papa finishes a song then is joined on stage by the incoming Papa who then sings. Does Tobias have an understudy? How does that work?

Pspreviewer100 [OP] (8y ago):
There's always a bit longer break before the last song and that is when things get organized. Papa 2 was an actor and Tobias was singing off stage when he was first introduced. Probably the same thing happened with Papa 3 also but Papa 2 was very obvious cause of the movement, it was totally off.

BearShaman (8y ago):
Ooh ok I was watching on my phone so I missed the little details. Thought I was losing it.

darkmelchiah (1y ago):
And with the release of Satanized , we're here, once again, reunited in expectation for more lore dumps in this thread.
The wait is long, but our faith is deep.
Edit: grammar stuff

MickIsAlwaysLate (3y ago):
This is rad

Ylandiau (2y ago):
Question... if he was found at the party in dance macabre, then why is it when copia is introduced that he mentions his father and others through a long bloodline when it seems he just randomly met there? Also in pinnacle to the pit which papa is that when I guess he died?

Realistic_Cap_1473 (1y ago):
Do you have time to update the post? :)

Interesting_Boot (8y ago):
Please proof read.