Thread Title: What should I expect from a heavy metal concert?
Subreddit: r/Explainlikeimscared

Initial Post:
I’m going to a Rob Zombie and Marilyn Manson concert in September, and it will be my first big concert I’ve ever been to. I’m kind of terrified, and I wanted to know if anyone could tell me what to expect, what I should prepare for, etc. The only other concert I’ve been to was a Luke Bryan concert when I was like 7.

Comments:

FruitcupMadonna:
Both of these performers are ages 55+. Their fan base likely leans GenX like me, and Elder Millennial. While Gen Xers can absolutely still rock, you should be fine at the show, as the crowd will likely be a lot of people who are parents and even grandparents at this point.
To protect your hearing from the higher volume of a live, indoor performance, get yourself some concert earplugs. When you get to be aged 55+ yourself, you will thank yourself.

encephalitis420:
seconding the ear protection. I've been going to metal concerts since I was about 15 or 16 (currently 27) and I'm partially deaf in both ears. largely it's not a huge issue and rarely interferes with my day to day function (rly not trying to fear monger it's more annoying than anything else, but I also wanna be honest about the stupid annoying shit I deal with lol), but I have trouble telling where sounds come from and have to listen to things louder than my peers to be able to hear properly. that paired with audio processing has made watching anything without subtitles basically impossible. hearing loss is NOT the end all be all, but it is a stupid problem to deal with and you are doing yourself a favor by wearing ear protection.
enjoy ur concert!!!!
make sure u dress comfortably and stay hydrated -- it may well be very hot. if u wear glasses and are gonna be in the pit then make sure u have someone to hold onto them for u or wear cargos with adequate pocket space. talking to strangers can be scary but I have yet to have a bad experience at a metal concert, and I've been to a decent amt of them.
most of all remember why you are there. you're seeing artists you, presumably, really enjoy and will love hearing live. scream along with the crowd and maybe take some pictures for a memory. ENJOY IT!!! u made a lot of effort and spent money to there, so the least u can have is a good, happy experience!!! i hope it's full of fun and laughter and grins 🫂🧡

Rendakor:
Do you have assigned seats, pit tickets, or is it General Admission (GA)/Standing Room Only?
If you have assigned seats, it might help to look up the venue online to have an idea where you are sitting. If not, expect to be in a large crowd. I'm assuming you aren't in a pit, but if you are, lmk and I'll elaborate.
When you first arrive, you'll go through security and metal detectors. Outside drinks are almost always prohibited, so be careful bringing any incl. water bottles.

Sojabursch:
With Marilyn Manson concert: If people sort you into the category woman by looking at you probably sexual harassment from other fans.
Also expect to be called names and insulted by him, he usually does that to the audience as a whole. And unless he fundamentally changed his concerts: Long breaks between songs where nothing happens, disappointing quality and disinterested demeanour, depending on country and local laws: he probably will go waaay over his time slot and that usually results in eventually having the venue turn off the power to the stage to make him leave, so people who work there can go home.

zenith931:
after reading this, I'm glad I never went to an MM concert. I've been tempted, but never have.
My experiences at NIN concerts have been fantastic, though.

lockandcompany:
I always like to check on the venue website first, look for what they allow in the venue and any extra rules they might have, saves so much headache at security! Some venues require clear bags only, some no bags, some don’t care— same with things like food and drink, weapons, cameras, spikes on clothes, umbrellas, etc etc.
I also use Eargasm Earplugs (although any high fidelity earplugs work!) high fidelity earplugs help filter out background noise (like audience clapping) and loud sounds (just muffles slightly) while still allowing you to hear the band really clearly (and people you’re with) I use mine every concert, and I have had them for over a decade with no issues. But even the cheap foam ones would be a good idea! Some venues offer them in bathrooms or at concessions, sometimes for free, I wouldn’t count on it.
Otherwise, heavy metal concerts are fairly similar to things like a country concert, but with some key differences.
1. moshing will be happening! People will be dancing and swinging arms and legs, crashing into each other. If that’s your vibe, you can join in! But remember that moshing isn’t intended to hurt anyone!
2. General etiquette is to keep moshing limited to a circle, often with bigger guys standing at the perimeter to act as a shield for folks who don’t want to participate. It should be easy to steer clear of if you don’t want to be a part of it. If someone’s being violent, moshing around people who don’t want it, etc. other folks or security do often step in.
I use mobility aids, and I have been to dozens of concerts and I am *always* safest at a heavy metal concert. Metal culture encourages people to be respectful with each other, and people often can tell when a newcomer is around and are gentle with them! One of my favorite memories as a teenager when I was maybe 16 or so, at a Tool concert, I was in the lawn section standing room only, back before I used mobility aids, but I was super short and couldn’t see over people. So people made a path to get me to the front of our section, and these huge bald dudes lifted me up so I could be balanced on the fence and let me hold onto them the whole time for support. They also helped me after the concert to get out to the street without getting stomped on. People generally will look out for each other more like that at a metal concert than like country or pop concerts

eldritchsquared:
first off, hell yeah. you’re gonna have a great time.
thirding the earplugs - if you don’t want to order some nice ones (though i really recommend it for sound quality), you can find cheap foam ones at a drugstore.
you’ll go through security, get your ticket scanned, and find your way to your seat. there’ll be a bit of waiting between sets, where you can walk around, get snacks or drinks, use the bathroom, etc. if you’re in the pit (standing area), you’ll get a special wristband. you may need to watch out for a mosh circle or crowd surfers if you’re in the pit, but you’ll be closer and have jumping around room.
during the show, they’ll probably do some crazy shit, if i remember my rob zombie concert at all (i don’t lol). theatrical stuff, probably some fire, generally having a fun time. just have fun watching and listening!
most metal dudes are pretty chill, they just look scary. metal (and punk) shows have the friendliest crowds i’ve ever been in! if you catch a good vibe from someone in a line or next to you, compliment a shirt and strike up a conversation :) you got this!

antiquemule:
Excellent advice re. ear plugs. My first concert was Black Sabbath in 1970. My ears were ringing for 2 days.

famousanonamos:
Wear earplugs and comfortable clothes and shoes. If you're scared, stay out of the pit. Metal shows are great! I've been to a lot of shows and the only time I've dealt with harassment was a pop cover band at a small venue with a big bar. At big concerts, people are more interested in the band than you. There's also usually a lot of security so if someone starts acting up, they get ejected.
Check the venue for what is allowed to bring in, but don't plan on being able to bring a regular bag. My go-to is a clear fanny pack so I can keep all my stuff right in front of me and keep my hands free.

Earfdoit:
It probably won't be a whole lot different than the Luke Bryan concert. Those bands are essentially on the pop spectrum.

filthysucre:
HeAvY mEtAL

jeharris56:
It will be loud and crowded. Plan to spend a lot of time standing in line.

yumi_Blaze:
You should expect to b one of many shaking their ass smoking their grass